modules/ROOT/pages/application-creation.adoc, before:

= Application descriptor
:page-aliases: applicationCreation.adoc

:description: Define your Bonita application descriptor.

Define your Bonita application descriptor.

== Overview

In Bonita 7.5, we introduced the possibility to manage application descriptors from the Studio. +
It accounts for an additional step to ease the management of xref:applications.adoc[Living Applications] in Bonita, since our objective is to offer a unique application deployment artifact, managed from the Studio. +
Then, all resources used by applications will be centralized and shared by the Bonita development suite: Bonita Studio and the UI Designer.

== Definition

Basically, an *application descriptor* is an XML file. It represents the skeleton of an application, as it contains references to resources installed in Bonita Portal and used by a given application. +
An application descriptor must be imported onto the portal (*Administrator* profile), in the *Applications* tab, to enable the application. +
Before Bonita 7.5, this portal tab was the only way to create and manage applications. +
For development purposes, the Studio can *deploy* applications descriptors onto the portal for you, from the project explorer or from the graphical editor.

Application descriptors are packaged in *application files*. +
An *application file* is an XML file containing one or more application descriptors.

[source,xml]
----
<!--  Application File -->
<applications>
	<application>
		<!--  First Application Descriptor -->
	</application>
	<application>
		<!--  Second Application Descriptor -->
	</application>
</applications>
----

However, application descriptors in a given application file are totally *independent*. +
The purpose of grouping application descriptors in one file is to manage together applications with the same company purpose, each of them dedicated to a different user profile. +
For example, the four leave management applications for employees, managers, Human Resources officers, and Administrators should be managed together, therefore grouped in the same application file.

== Create and build an Application Descriptor

From Bonita Studio, use the *new* button in the Studio coolbar or click on *Development* \-> *Application Descriptor* \-> *New...* +
It will create an empty application file with a default name and open an editor. You can *rename* this application file from the project explorer, the graphical UI or the menu *Open*.

image:images/applicationDescriptors/emptyApplicationFile_v2.png[Empty Application File] +
Here is the application descriptor graphical UI provided. It is bound to the XML source, so you can use it to build your application descriptor without writing xml. +
You can switch from the graphical UI to the xml source at any moment, using the tabs _Editor_ and _Source_ at the bottom of the editor. +
A toolbar is embedded to the editor, use it to:

* *Add* an application descriptor to this application file
* *Deploy* this application file (i.e all the application descriptors in this file). +
⚠  For _development_ purposes, it also deploys their referenced pages and layout, but if those resources use REST API Extensions, you have to deploy those manually. In _production_ environment, you still need to deploy pages, layouts and REST API Extensions manually *before* to deploy the application descriptor.
* *Rename* this application file
* *Export* this application file (download the .xml)
* *Delete* this application file from your current workspace

image::images/applicationDescriptors/applicationDescriptorEditor_v2.png[Application Descriptor Editor]

The application *Token* is the identifier of your Application Descriptor; it has to be unique. It is used to define the URL root of your Application:  _../apps/APPLICATIONTOKEN/.._

The fields _Profile_, _Layout_, _Theme_, _Application Page_ and _Home page token_ come with an auto complete feature. +
Be aware that we only suggest options known by Bonita Studio and the UI Designer. +
It means that custom themes, or custom pages and layouts created with another editor than the UI Designer will not appear as options, since they are only known by Bonita Portal.
You can still reference such an "unknown" resource, but you will have to write the exact identifier by yourself, and make sure the resource is imported onto the portal *before* you deploy/install the application descriptor. +
Since Bonita 7.6, and for Enterprise, Performance and Efficiency editions only, custom profiles can be created in the studio. +
Therefore, such profiles will be suggested. Those created in the portal will not, but you can still export them from the portal and import them in the studio to get them in the suggested options.

There are two ways to reference pages used by your application. In the _Navigation_ table or in the _Orphan pages_ table. +
Use the _Navigation_ table to create the application menus/submenus, and bind those menus to pages. +
A page needs a unique token (unique in the context of the application descriptor). It will be use to define the URL to reach this page: _../apps/applicationToken/PAGETOKEN_ +
Use the _Orphan pages_ table to reference pages that will be accessed using the associated URL, but won't be attached to a menu. It can be the application home page, or pages accessible from other pages but not from a menu. +
⚠ You don't need to define your pages twice. If a page is accessed both from a menu and from another page, you only need to reference it in the _Navigation_ table: pages defined in the Navigation table will be accessible in the whole application.

A preview link is also provided, at the top of the _Overview_ section. Clicking on the link will first deploy the selected application descriptor, and then open the application home page in your browser.

Commit message:

More removal of Portal references

modules/ROOT/pages/application-creation.adoc, after:

= Application descriptor
:page-aliases: applicationCreation.adoc

:description: Define your Bonita application descriptor.

Define your Bonita application descriptor.

== Overview

In Bonita 7.5, we introduced the possibility to manage application descriptors from the Studio. +
It accounts for an additional step to ease the management of xref:applications.adoc[Living Applications] in Bonita, since our objective is to offer a unique application deployment artifact, managed from the Studio. +
Then, all resources used by applications will be centralized and shared by the Bonita development suite: Bonita Studio and the UI Designer.

== Definition

Basically, an *application descriptor* is an XML file. It represents the skeleton of an application, as it contains references to resources installed in the Bonita platform and used by a given application. +
An application descriptor must be imported into the Bonita platform (Bonita Administrator application), in the *Applications* tab, to enable the application. +
For development purposes, the Studio can *deploy* applications descriptors into the Bonita Applications for you, from the project explorer or from the graphical editor.

Application descriptors are packaged in *application files*. +
An *application file* is an XML file containing one or more application descriptors.

[source,xml]
----
<!--  Application File -->
<applications>
	<application>
		<!--  First Application Descriptor -->
	</application>
	<application>
		<!--  Second Application Descriptor -->
	</application>
</applications>
----

However, application descriptors in a given application file are totally *independent*. +
The purpose of grouping application descriptors in one file is to manage together applications with the same company purpose, each of them dedicated to a different user profile. +
For example, the four leave management applications for employees, managers, Human Resources officers, and Administrators should be managed together, therefore grouped in the same application file.

== Create and build an Application Descriptor

From Bonita Studio, use the *new* button in the Studio coolbar or click on *Development* \-> *Application Descriptor* \-> *New...* +
It will create an empty application file with a default name and open an editor. You can *rename* this application file from the project explorer, the graphical UI or the menu *Open*.

image:images/applicationDescriptors/emptyApplicationFile_v2.png[Empty Application File] +
Here is the application descriptor graphical UI provided. It is bound to the XML source, so you can use it to build your application descriptor without writing xml. +
You can switch from the graphical UI to the xml source at any moment, using the tabs _Editor_ and _Source_ at the bottom of the editor. +
A toolbar is embedded to the editor, use it to:

* *Add* an application descriptor to this application file
* *Deploy* this application file (i.e all the application descriptors in this file). +
⚠  For _development_ purposes, it also deploys their referenced pages and layout, but if those resources use REST API Extensions, you have to deploy those manually. In _production_ environment, you still need to deploy pages, layouts and REST API Extensions manually *before* to deploy the application descriptor.
* *Rename* this application file
* *Export* this application file (download the .xml)
* *Delete* this application file from your current workspace

image::images/applicationDescriptors/applicationDescriptorEditor_v2.png[Application Descriptor Editor]

The application *Token* is the identifier of your Application Descriptor; it has to be unique. It is used to define the URL root of your Application:  _../apps/APPLICATIONTOKEN/.._

The fields _Profile_, _Layout_, _Theme_, _Application Page_ and _Home page token_ come with an auto complete feature. +
Be aware that we only suggest options known by Bonita Studio and the UI Designer. +
It means that custom themes, or custom pages and layouts created with another editor than the UI Designer will not appear as options, since they are only known by the Bonita Applications.
You can still reference such an "unknown" resource, but you will have to write the exact identifier by yourself, and make sure the resource is imported into the Bonita Applications *before* you deploy/install the application descriptor. +
Since Bonita 7.6, and for Enterprise, Performance and Efficiency editions only, custom profiles can be created in the studio. +
Therefore, such profiles will be suggested. Those created in the Bonita Applications will not, but you can still export them from the Applications and import them in the studio to get them in the suggested options.

There are two ways to reference pages used by your application. In the _Navigation_ table or in the _Orphan pages_ table. +
Use the _Navigation_ table to create the application menus/submenus, and bind those menus to pages. +
A page needs a unique token (unique in the context of the application descriptor). It will be use to define the URL to reach this page: _../apps/applicationToken/PAGETOKEN_ +
Use the _Orphan pages_ table to reference pages that will be accessed using the associated URL, but won't be attached to a menu. It can be the application home page, or pages accessible from other pages but not from a menu. +
⚠ You don't need to define your pages twice. If a page is accessed both from a menu and from another page, you only need to reference it in the _Navigation_ table: pages defined in the Navigation table will be accessible in the whole application.

A preview link is also provided, at the top of the _Overview_ section. Clicking on the link will first deploy the selected application descriptor, and then open the application home page in your browser.
