modules/ROOT/pages/archives.adoc, before:

= Download archived documentations of old Bonita versions
:description: This page gives access to the download of Bonita documentation archives, in case you need something very specific to those versions.

This page gives access to the download of Bonita documentation archives, in case you need something very specific to those versions. The format is either html (for not so old versions) or pdf (for very old versions).

== Bonita BPM 7.3 and Bonita BPM 7.4

The format here is html. +
Download the .zip archive, extract it, and then open the index.html file to launch the site. +
You can navigate those sites with the table of content on the left. 

* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/7.4-20210311_130615/documentation-bonita-7.4.zip[Bonita BPM 7.4]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/7.3-20210311_130652/documentation-bonita-7.3.zip[Bonita BPM 7.3]
 

== From Bonita BPM 6.0 to Bonita BPM 7.2

The format of those versions is pdf. It replaces the very old documentation website. +
Download the .zip archive and open the pdf document.
You can navigate those documents by using Ctrl+F. 

* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_7.2.zip[Bonita BPM 7.2]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_7.1.zip[Bonita BPM 7.1]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_7.0.zip[Bonita BPM 7.0]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_6.5.zip[Bonita BPM 6.5]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_6.4.zip[Bonita BPM 6.4]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_6.3.zip[Bonita BPM 6.3]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_6.2.zip[Bonita BPM 6.2]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_6.1.zip[Bonita BPM 6.1]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_6.0.zip[Bonita BPM 6.0]

== Bonita BPM 5.x versions

These versions are very, very, very old by now. +
If you need a pdf archive, please send a request to https://customer.bonitasoft.com/[support].

Commit message:

update(archives): v5 contact support to zip
* V5: replace contacting the support with a direct link to the zip archive of the html file
* the file is now hosted in the site in the 5.x_archives tag

modules/ROOT/pages/archives.adoc, after:

= Download archived documentations of old Bonita versions
:description: This page gives access to the download of Bonita documentation archives, in case you need something very specific to those versions.

This page gives access to the download of Bonita documentation archives, in case you need something very specific to those versions. The format is either html (for not so old versions) or pdf (for very old versions).

== Bonita BPM 7.3 and Bonita BPM 7.4

The format here is html. +
Download the .zip archive, extract it, and then open the index.html file to launch the site. +
You can navigate those sites with the table of content on the left. 

* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/7.4-20210311_130615/documentation-bonita-7.4.zip[Bonita BPM 7.4]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/7.3-20210311_130652/documentation-bonita-7.3.zip[Bonita BPM 7.3]
 

== From Bonita BPM 6.0 to Bonita BPM 7.2

The format of those versions is pdf. It replaces the very old documentation website. +
Download the .zip archive and open the pdf document.
You can navigate those documents by using Ctrl+F. 

* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_7.2.zip[Bonita BPM 7.2]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_7.1.zip[Bonita BPM 7.1]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_7.0.zip[Bonita BPM 7.0]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_6.5.zip[Bonita BPM 6.5]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_6.4.zip[Bonita BPM 6.4]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_6.3.zip[Bonita BPM 6.3]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_6.2.zip[Bonita BPM 6.2]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_6.1.zip[Bonita BPM 6.1]
* https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/6.0-7.2_archives/BonitaBPM_6.0.zip[Bonita BPM 6.0]

== Bonita BPM 5.x versions

These versions are very, very, very old by now. +
But, if you need to access their documentation, you can download https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-doc/releases/download/5.x_archives/BonitaBPM_5.x.zip[our html site with Bonita 5.x versions]. +
Download the .zip archive, extract it, and then open the index.html file to launch the site. +
