modules/ROOT/pages/building-community-edition-from-source.adoc, before:

= Build Bonita Community edition from the source
:description: :doctype: book

:doctype: book

Bonita is an opensource Digital Process Automation platform, you can therefore build Bonita Community edition from the source.

All source code of Bonita is available from the https://github.com/bonitasoft[Bonitasoft GitHub organization]. Each Bonita component has
a dedicated repository (e.g. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine[Engine repository]).

= Building Bonita

== Manual Bonita build

You can build Bonita from component to component, but you have to know the component interdependencies: some components rely on components
that are built earlier in the sequence, so the build order must be respected. For instance, build `bonita-engine` prior to build
`bonita-web`.

== The 'Build Bonita' repository

To simplify the build process, you can use the solution provided in the https://github.com/Bonitasoft-Community/Build-Bonita[Build Bonita] GitHub project.

Follow the `README` file to get instructions about

* the build procedure
* eventual limitations
* eventual additional prerequisites

Commit message:

fix: fix asciidoctor warnings and errors
They were mainly due to markdown to asciidoc conversion issues.

bonita-bpm-overview.adoc: remove empty header
building-community-edition-from-source.adoc: fix description and extra header
maintenance-operation.adoc: fix header levels + description
manage-a-process.adoc: fix unterminated admonition block
single-sign-on-with-cas.adoc: fix wrong header level
share-a-repository-on-github: fix ordered list
  There was a wrong list item index (double alphanumeric declaration for c)
  Now use nested list to let asciidoc manage the actual letters to be used

modules/ROOT/pages/building-community-edition-from-source.adoc, after:

= Build Bonita Community edition from the source
:description: How to build Bonita Community edition from the source

Bonita is an opensource Digital Process Automation platform, you can therefore build Bonita Community edition from the source.

All source code of Bonita is available from the https://github.com/bonitasoft[Bonitasoft GitHub organization]. Each Bonita component has
a dedicated repository (e.g. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine[Engine repository]).

== Manual Bonita build

You can build Bonita from component to component, but you have to know the component interdependencies: some components rely on components
that are built earlier in the sequence, so the build order must be respected. For instance, build `bonita-engine` prior to build
`bonita-web`.

== The 'Build Bonita' repository

To simplify the build process, you can use the solution provided in the https://github.com/Bonitasoft-Community/Build-Bonita[Build Bonita] GitHub project.

Follow the `README` file to get instructions about

* the build procedure
* eventual limitations
* eventual additional prerequisites
