modules/ROOT/pages/custom-user-information-in-bonita-applications.adoc, before:

= Custom User Information Management
:page-aliases: custom-user-information-in-bonita-bpm-portal.adoc
:description: This page explains what a user with the _Administrator_ profile in Bonita Portal or in the xref:admin-application-overview.adoc[Bonita Administrator Application] can see and do with custom information xref:custom-user-information-in-bonita-bpm-studio.adoc[created at development time] about the users.

{description}

Administrators can view and update Custom User Information.

Here is a view of this page:
image:images/UI2021.1/custom-user-info.png[Custom User Information UI]
// {.img-responsive}

== Overview

Custom User Information -CUI) account for additional information than the provided information defined in Bonita Studio to describe users. This may be needed to define the right actors for a human task.
Each CUI is defined in Bonita Studio organization, and used in the specific _Users with custom information_ provided actor filter in Bonita Studio. +
CUIs are also displayed in Bonita Portal, in the _More_ page of a user. +
This allows the Administrator to edit the values of a CUI for a given user, and by this means change the actor mapping. +
The Administrator cannot create a CUI nor edit a CUI definition.

[NOTE]
====

if no customer user definitions are set in Bonita Studio, then no information will be displayed in Bonita Portal. +
However, definitions can be created and edited using the xref:customuserinfo-api.adoc[Web REST API]. +
The Organization .xml file can also be exported from Bonita Portal, modified by hand externally, and then re-imported back into Bonita Portal, although we strongly advise to always modify resources from the development environment and then deploy iteratively on the test environments until the Production environment.
====

See xref:custom-user-information-in-bonita-bpm-studio.adoc[Custom User Information in Bonita Studio]

== View / Edit custom information for a user

. Go to _Organization_/_Users_.
. Click on a user.
. Click on _More_.
. Click on _Custom information_.
. In the information to edit, enter a value for the definition (defined in Bonita Studio), which will only be added to this user.
. Click _Update custom information_.

Note that changing the value will modify the filtering and may map the user to different tasks.

Commit message:

feat(Portal): Remove mention of Portal from documentation part 2  (#1695)
* feat(Portal): Remove mention of Portal from documentation part 2

covers [RUNTIME-304](https://bonitasoft.atlassian.net/browse/RUNTIME-304)

modules/ROOT/pages/custom-user-information-in-bonita-applications.adoc, after:

= Custom User Information Management
:page-aliases: custom-user-information-in-bonita-bpm-portal.adoc
:description: This page explains what a user with the _Administrator_ profile in Bonita Portal or in the xref:admin-application-overview.adoc[Bonita Administrator Application] can see and do with custom information xref:custom-user-information-in-bonita-bpm-studio.adoc[created at development time] about the users.

{description}

Administrators can view and update Custom User Information.

Here is a view of this page:
image:images/UI2021.1/custom-user-info.png[Custom User Information UI]
// {.img-responsive}

== Overview

Custom User Information (CUI) account for additional information than the provided information defined in Bonita Studio to describe users. This may be needed to define the right actors for a human task.
Each CUI is defined in Bonita Studio organization, and used in the specific _Users with custom information_ provided actor filter in Bonita Studio. +
CUIs are also displayed in the Bonita Administrator Application, in the _More_ page of a user. +
This allows the Administrator to edit the values of a CUI for a given user, and by this means change the actor mapping. +
The Administrator cannot create a CUI nor edit a CUI definition.

[NOTE]
====

if no customer user definitions are set in Bonita Studio, then no information will be displayed in the Bonita Administrator Application. +
However, definitions can be created and edited using the xref:customuserinfo-api.adoc[Web REST API]. +
The Organization .xml file can also be exported from Bonita Administrator Application, modified by hand externally, and then re-imported back into Bonita Administrator Application, although we strongly advise to always modify resources from the development environment and then deploy iteratively on the test environments until the Production environment.
====

See xref:custom-user-information-in-bonita-bpm-studio.adoc[Custom User Information in Bonita Studio]

== View / Edit custom information for a user

. Go to _Organization_/_Users_.
. Click on a user.
. Click on _More_.
. Click on _Custom information_.
. In the information to edit, enter a value for the definition (defined in Bonita Studio), which will only be added to this user.
. Click _Update custom information_.

Note that changing the value will modify the filtering and may map the user to different tasks.
