modules/ROOT/pages/customuserinfo-api.adoc, before:

= Custom user info API

The Custom user info Rest API allows to manage the custom information of the Bonita's users.

== Definition

=== Description

Manage the custom user definitions.

=== Identifier

Simple, the ID of the object (a long value)

=== Representation

[source,json]
----
{
  "id":"_id of definition_",
  "description":"_definition description_",
  "name":"_definition name_"
}
----

=== Methods

The methods used for this resource are:

* GET
* POST
* DELETE

==== Add a new definition

Use the method POST to add a new definition.

* *URL* +
`+http://localhost:8080/bonita/API/customuserinfo/definition+` +
_Example_: Add a definition called `skill`.
* *Method* +
`POST`
* *Data Params*
* *Request Payload* +
JSON representation of definition, without id
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "name": "skill",
  "description": "code slayer"
}
----

* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*: +
JSON representation of complete definition including generated id
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "id":"101",
  "description":"code slayer",
  "name":"skill"
}
----

==== Delete a definition

Use the DELETE method to delete an existing definition.

* *URL* +
`+http://localhost:8080/bonita/API/customuserinfo/definition/+`
* *Method* +
`DELETE`

==== List the custom user information

Use a GET method to search for definitions.

There are no filters, and no search terms. All the definitions are returned.

* *URL* +
`/API/customuserinfo/definition`
* *Method* +
`GET`
* *Data Params*
 ** c: number of result per page
 ** p: page number
* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*: +
An array of definition objects

== Value

=== Description

Manage the value of the custom user definitions.

=== Identifier

Simple, the ID of the object (a long value)

=== Representation

[source,json]
----
{
  "userId":"_id of user_",
  "value":"_content of the value_",
  "definitionId":"_id of definition_"
}
----

=== Methods

The methods used for this resource are:

* GET
* PUT

==== Associate definitions to users

Use a PUT method to associate users with custom information.

* *URL* +
`+http://localhost:8080/bonita/API/customuserinfo/value/:userId/:definitionId+` +
_Example_: Associate the user with id = 1 with the definition with id = 2. `+http://localhost:8080/bonita/API/customuserinfo/value/1/2+`
* *Method* +
`PUT`
* *Request Payload*
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "value":"customUserInfoValue"
}
----

* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200

==== Search custom user info

Use a GET method to search for custom user information associated to a specific user.

* *URL* +
`/API/customuserinfo/value` +
_Example_: http://localhost:8080/bonita/API/customuserinfo/value?c=10&p=0&f=definitionId=1
* *Method* +
`GET`
* *Data Params* (Required)
 ** c: number of result per page
 ** p: page number
 ** f : filter to apply on results with the format `f={filter\_name}={filter\_value}` +
 _possible filter names_: userId, value, definitionId (the filter value being the custom user information definition ID)
* *Success Response* +
An array of customuserinfo/value objects
 ** *Code*: 200

== User

=== Description

Manage the custom user info associated to a specific user

=== Identifier

Simple, the ID of the object (a long value)

=== Representation

[source,json]
----
{
  "userId":"_id of user_",
  "value":"_content of the value_",
  "definitionId":{
    "id" : "_id of definition_",
    "description" : "_definition description_",
    "name" : "_definition name_"
  }
}
----

=== Methods

The methods used for this resource are:

* GET

==== Search custom user info

Use a GET method to search for custom user information associated to a specific user.

* *URL* +
`/API/customuserinfo/user` +
_Example_: http://localhost:8080/bonita/API/customuserinfo/user?c=10&p=0&f=userId=1
* *Method* +
`GET`
* *Data Params* (Required)
 ** c: number of result per page
 ** p: page number
 ** f : filter to apply on results with the format `f={filter\_name}={filter\_value}` +
 the filter userId is mandatory `f=userId=id`
* *Success Response* +
An array of customuserinfo/user objects
 ** *Code*: 200

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/customuserinfo-api.adoc, after:

= Custom user info API
:description: The Custom user info Rest API allows to manage the custom information of the Bonita's users.

The Custom user info Rest API allows to manage the custom information of the Bonita's users.

== Definition

=== Description

Manage the custom user definitions.

=== Identifier

Simple, the ID of the object (a long value)

=== Representation

[source,json]
----
{
  "id":"_id of definition_",
  "description":"_definition description_",
  "name":"_definition name_"
}
----

=== Methods

The methods used for this resource are:

* GET
* POST
* DELETE

==== Add a new definition

Use the method POST to add a new definition.

* *URL* +
`+http://localhost:8080/bonita/API/customuserinfo/definition+` +
_Example_: Add a definition called `skill`.
* *Method* +
`POST`
* *Data Params*
* *Request Payload* +
JSON representation of definition, without id
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "name": "skill",
  "description": "code slayer"
}
----

* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*: +
JSON representation of complete definition including generated id
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "id":"101",
  "description":"code slayer",
  "name":"skill"
}
----

==== Delete a definition

Use the DELETE method to delete an existing definition.

* *URL* +
`+http://localhost:8080/bonita/API/customuserinfo/definition/+`
* *Method* +
`DELETE`

==== List the custom user information

Use a GET method to search for definitions.

There are no filters, and no search terms. All the definitions are returned.

* *URL* +
`/API/customuserinfo/definition`
* *Method* +
`GET`
* *Data Params*
 ** c: number of result per page
 ** p: page number
* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*: +
An array of definition objects

== Value

=== Description

Manage the value of the custom user definitions.

=== Identifier

Simple, the ID of the object (a long value)

=== Representation

[source,json]
----
{
  "userId":"_id of user_",
  "value":"_content of the value_",
  "definitionId":"_id of definition_"
}
----

=== Methods

The methods used for this resource are:

* GET
* PUT

==== Associate definitions to users

Use a PUT method to associate users with custom information.

* *URL* +
`+http://localhost:8080/bonita/API/customuserinfo/value/:userId/:definitionId+` +
_Example_: Associate the user with id = 1 with the definition with id = 2. `+http://localhost:8080/bonita/API/customuserinfo/value/1/2+`
* *Method* +
`PUT`
* *Request Payload*
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "value":"customUserInfoValue"
}
----

* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200

==== Search custom user info

Use a GET method to search for custom user information associated to a specific user.

* *URL* +
`/API/customuserinfo/value` +
_Example_: http://localhost:8080/bonita/API/customuserinfo/value?c=10&p=0&f=definitionId=1
* *Method* +
`GET`
* *Data Params* (Required)
 ** c: number of result per page
 ** p: page number
 ** f : filter to apply on results with the format `f={filter\_name}={filter\_value}` +
 _possible filter names_: userId, value, definitionId (the filter value being the custom user information definition ID)
* *Success Response* +
An array of customuserinfo/value objects
 ** *Code*: 200

== User

=== Description

Manage the custom user info associated to a specific user

=== Identifier

Simple, the ID of the object (a long value)

=== Representation

[source,json]
----
{
  "userId":"_id of user_",
  "value":"_content of the value_",
  "definitionId":{
    "id" : "_id of definition_",
    "description" : "_definition description_",
    "name" : "_definition name_"
  }
}
----

=== Methods

The methods used for this resource are:

* GET

==== Search custom user info

Use a GET method to search for custom user information associated to a specific user.

* *URL* +
`/API/customuserinfo/user` +
_Example_: http://localhost:8080/bonita/API/customuserinfo/user?c=10&p=0&f=userId=1
* *Method* +
`GET`
* *Data Params* (Required)
 ** c: number of result per page
 ** p: page number
 ** f : filter to apply on results with the format `f={filter\_name}={filter\_value}` +
 the filter userId is mandatory `f=userId=id`
* *Success Response* +
An array of customuserinfo/user objects
 ** *Code*: 200
