modules/ROOT/pages/data-management.adoc, before:

= Data Management in the UI Designer

Discover how to explore xref:define-business-data-model.adoc[Business Data Model] (BDM) objects in the UI Designer, and use it to create user interfaces and variables.

A *Data Model* tab is available from the Palette of the Page editor:

image::images/uid_data_model_panel.png[data_model_panel]

== Exploring the BDM

From the Data Model tab, the graph icon allows you to visualize and explore the BDM.
A graphical view of the relationships between business objects (with their attributes) is displayed in a new tab of your browser.
The left part provides a way to explore the BDM tree or search a specific object or attribute.
You can use also the graphical view to explore the model.

NOTE:
Note: we are using the graphql-voyager tool, which represents a GraphQL schema as an interactive graph.


image::images/uid_graphql_voyager.png[graphql_voyager]

Once you know which business object you want to use, you can either:

* Generate a user interface,
* Create a Business data variable and create yourself your user interface

== Create a user interface from a Business Object

Drag and drop a Business Object in the whiteboard.
A configuration wizard appears: provide information on how to retrieve elements of this Business Object.
You can find information on how to use this wizard from the xref:variables.adoc[Business Data Variables] page.

image::images/uid_data_management_wizard.png[data_management_wizard]

A user interface is generated. It follows the master/details pattern: a Table widget is displayed with all the object instances, and the details are shown when a line is selected.
The details section map each Business Object attribute to a corresponding widget (for instance, an Input widget for an attribute of type String).
If you need another widget for an attribute, you can xref:widgets.adoc[switch the widget].
A set of variables are generated as well, to allow the user interface to operate.

NOTE:
Notes:

* All the widgets are in read-only mode since the purpose here is to visualize data
* The pagination is not handled by the generated interface


You can try it with the Preview, and modify it as needed.

== Create a variable from a Business Object

Create a new variable from the Variables panel and select BusinessData as a type.
A configuration wizard appears (see the instructions just above).
Once the variable is created, you can create your user interface using this variable.

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/data-management.adoc, after:

= Data Management in the UI Designer
:description: Discover how to explore xref:define-business-data-model.adoc[Business Data Model] (BDM) objects in the UI Designer, and use it to create user interfaces and variables.

Discover how to explore xref:define-business-data-model.adoc[Business Data Model] (BDM) objects in the UI Designer, and use it to create user interfaces and variables.

A *Data Model* tab is available from the Palette of the Page editor:

image::images/uid_data_model_panel.png[data_model_panel]

== Exploring the BDM

From the Data Model tab, the graph icon allows you to visualize and explore the BDM.
A graphical view of the relationships between business objects (with their attributes) is displayed in a new tab of your browser.
The left part provides a way to explore the BDM tree or search a specific object or attribute.
You can use also the graphical view to explore the model.

[NOTE]
====

Note: we are using the graphql-voyager tool, which represents a GraphQL schema as an interactive graph.
====

image::images/uid_graphql_voyager.png[graphql_voyager]

Once you know which business object you want to use, you can either:

* Generate a user interface,
* Create a Business data variable and create yourself your user interface

== Create a user interface from a Business Object

Drag and drop a Business Object in the whiteboard.
A configuration wizard appears: provide information on how to retrieve elements of this Business Object.
You can find information on how to use this wizard from the xref:variables.adoc[Business Data Variables] page.

image::images/uid_data_management_wizard.png[data_management_wizard]

A user interface is generated. It follows the master/details pattern: a Table widget is displayed with all the object instances, and the details are shown when a line is selected.
The details section map each Business Object attribute to a corresponding widget (for instance, an Input widget for an attribute of type String).
If you need another widget for an attribute, you can xref:widgets.adoc[switch the widget].
A set of variables are generated as well, to allow the user interface to operate.

[NOTE]
====

Notes:

* All the widgets are in read-only mode since the purpose here is to visualize data
* The pagination is not handled by the generated interface
====

You can try it with the Preview, and modify it as needed.

== Create a variable from a Business Object

Create a new variable from the Variables panel and select BusinessData as a type.
A configuration wizard appears (see the instructions just above).
Once the variable is created, you can create your user interface using this variable.
