modules/ROOT/pages/deactivate-a-user.adoc, before:

= Administrator User activation / deactivation in Bonita Portal

This page explains what a user with the _Administrator_ profile in Bonita Portal can see and do about the activation and deactivation of a user. +
Activation / deactivation of a user allows to revoke any access to the platform, without deleting the user. +
If a user is deactivated, they cannot log in to Bonita Portal. However, all their past actions are kept intact and can be displayed.

NOTE:
The Administrator cannot add a membership to a deactivated user.
In consequence, the _Add membership_ button is not displayed for an inactive user.


Here is a view of this page:
image:images/UI2021.1/user-deactivate.png[Administrator user deactivation]
// {.img-responsive}

== Deactivate a user

. Go to_Organization_/_Users_.
. Select a user in the _Active_ list.
. Click on _Deactivate_.
. Confirm the deactivation
The user is then moved from the Active list to the Inactive list.

== Reactivate a deactivated user

. Go to_Organization_/_Users_.
. Select a user in the _Inactive_ list.
. Click on _Activate_.
The user is moved from the _Inactive_ list to the _Active_ list.

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/deactivate-a-user.adoc, after:

= Administrator User activation / deactivation in Bonita Portal
:description: This page explains what a user with the _Administrator_ profile in Bonita Portal can see and do about the activation and deactivation of a user. +

This page explains what a user with the _Administrator_ profile in Bonita Portal can see and do about the activation and deactivation of a user. +
Activation / deactivation of a user allows to revoke any access to the platform, without deleting the user. +
If a user is deactivated, they cannot log in to Bonita Portal. However, all their past actions are kept intact and can be displayed.

[NOTE]
====

The Administrator cannot add a membership to a deactivated user.
In consequence, the _Add membership_ button is not displayed for an inactive user.
====

Here is a view of this page:
image:images/UI2021.1/user-deactivate.png[Administrator user deactivation]
// {.img-responsive}

== Deactivate a user

. Go to_Organization_/_Users_.
. Select a user in the _Active_ list.
. Click on _Deactivate_.
. Confirm the deactivation
The user is then moved from the Active list to the Inactive list.

== Reactivate a deactivated user

. Go to_Organization_/_Users_.
. Select a user in the _Inactive_ list.
. Click on _Activate_.
The user is moved from the _Inactive_ list to the _Active_ list.
