modules/ROOT/pages/environments.adoc, before:

= Environment management

An environment is a set of configuration definitions for a project. You can configure a process differently for each environments.

== How to use environments

The main idea behind the environment concept is to avoid modifying processes to be able to run on different deployments (for example: production and development).
One process can run in several environments without any modification, because the information that is specific to an environment is set at configuration. The Bonita Studio proposes three environments, Local, Production, and Qualification. You can also define custom environments.

You can configure and run a process in a specific environment.

The default environment is the one most recently selected in the Configure or Run menus in the Cool bar.

WARNING:
The *Local* environment is meant to be local, you cannot share it with a VCS (Git / SVN).


== Define a custom environment

To define a custom environment for a process, open the process in Bonita Studio and
select the pool. Then choose *New environment...* from the *Configure* or *Run* menu in the Cool bar, enter a name for the new environment, and click _*OK*_. The new environment will appear in the  *Configure* and *Run* menus in the Cool bar.

== Configure a process in an environment

To configure a process for an environment, select the environment from the *Configure* menu in the Cool bar. Then use the configuration wizard to xref:configuring-a-process.adoc[configure the process].

== Run a process in an environment

To run a process from Bonita Studio in an environment, select the environment from the *Run* menu in the Cool bar. The process will be launched using the information configured for the specified environment.

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/environments.adoc, after:

= Environment management
:description: An environment is a set of configuration definitions for a project. You can configure a process differently for each environments.

An environment is a set of configuration definitions for a project. You can configure a process differently for each environments.

== How to use environments

The main idea behind the environment concept is to avoid modifying processes to be able to run on different deployments (for example: production and development).
One process can run in several environments without any modification, because the information that is specific to an environment is set at configuration. The Bonita Studio proposes three environments, Local, Production, and Qualification. You can also define custom environments.

You can configure and run a process in a specific environment.

The default environment is the one most recently selected in the Configure or Run menus in the Cool bar.

[WARNING]
====

The *Local* environment is meant to be local, you cannot share it with a VCS (Git / SVN).
====

== Define a custom environment

To define a custom environment for a process, open the process in Bonita Studio and
select the pool. Then choose *New environment...* from the *Configure* or *Run* menu in the Cool bar, enter a name for the new environment, and click _*OK*_. The new environment will appear in the  *Configure* and *Run* menus in the Cool bar.

== Configure a process in an environment

To configure a process for an environment, select the environment from the *Configure* menu in the Cool bar. Then use the configuration wizard to xref:configuring-a-process.adoc[configure the process].

== Run a process in an environment

To run a process from Bonita Studio in an environment, select the environment from the *Run* menu in the Cool bar. The process will be launched using the information configured for the specified environment.
