modules/ROOT/pages/forms.adoc, before:

= Forms
:description: Forms are critical to process execution. They are linked to both process instantiation and task execution.

Forms are critical to process execution. They are linked to both process instantiation and task execution.

Most of the time, they are used in only one process; in this case, they are packaged with the process and deployed in the _Processes_ section of Bonita Portal. They can be viewed in the process details section.
Alternatively, they can be used in several processes. In this case, they can be managed as xref:resource-management.adoc[_Resources_] in Bonita Portal.

== Instantiation form

When it is submitted, a case (process instance) is created. +
At develoment time, an auto-generated form is provided by default, to ease process logic testing and debugging. +
It is based on the relevant contract. +
A custom form must be developed for user testing and production environments.

== Human Task execution form

When it is submitted, the human task is executed. +
At development time, an auto-generated form is provided by default, to ease process logic testing and debugging. +
It is based on the relevant contract. +
A custom form must be developed for user testing and production environments.

== Case overview form

It gives the chronological evolution of the case, the current values for Business data as well as documents. +
At development time, an auto-generated form is provided by default. It can also be used in Non-Production or Production environments.

== Use in processes

Most of the time, processes imbed their forms in the .bar generated from Bonita Studio and deployed to a Bonita Runtime.
Rarely, when a form is used by multiple processes, it can be deployed as a "Resource" in Bonita Portal.

== Live update

xref:live-update.adoc[Live update] allows the Administrator to update one element of the application in a situation of emergency. +
You can link:live-update.md#form-list[update the form in the list] and link:live-update.md#form-mapping[modify the mapping with the process]. +
You can also link:resource-management.md#modify[edit] a global form as a resource in Bonita Portal.

To know more about the development of forms, go to the xref:page-and-form-development-overview.adoc[page and form development overview] page.

Commit message:

doc(generation): auto convert asciinema and cross link fixes

modules/ROOT/pages/forms.adoc, after:

= Forms
:description: Forms are critical to process execution. They are linked to both process instantiation and task execution.

Forms are critical to process execution. They are linked to both process instantiation and task execution.

Most of the time, they are used in only one process; in this case, they are packaged with the process and deployed in the _Processes_ section of Bonita Portal. They can be viewed in the process details section.
Alternatively, they can be used in several processes. In this case, they can be managed as xref:resource-management.adoc[_Resources_] in Bonita Portal.

== Instantiation form

When it is submitted, a case (process instance) is created. +
At develoment time, an auto-generated form is provided by default, to ease process logic testing and debugging. +
It is based on the relevant contract. +
A custom form must be developed for user testing and production environments.

== Human Task execution form

When it is submitted, the human task is executed. +
At development time, an auto-generated form is provided by default, to ease process logic testing and debugging. +
It is based on the relevant contract. +
A custom form must be developed for user testing and production environments.

== Case overview form

It gives the chronological evolution of the case, the current values for Business data as well as documents. +
At development time, an auto-generated form is provided by default. It can also be used in Non-Production or Production environments.

== Use in processes

Most of the time, processes imbed their forms in the .bar generated from Bonita Studio and deployed to a Bonita Runtime.
Rarely, when a form is used by multiple processes, it can be deployed as a "Resource" in Bonita Portal.

== Live update

xref:live-update.adoc[Live update] allows the Administrator to update one element of the application in a situation of emergency. +
You can xref:live-update.adoc]#form-list[update the form in the list] and xref:live-update.adoc]]#form-mapping[modify the mapping with the process]. +
You can also xref:resource-management.adoc]#modify[edit] a global form as a resource in Bonita Portal.

To know more about the development of forms, go to the xref:page-and-form-development-overview.adoc[page and form development overview] page.
