modules/ROOT/pages/getting-started-index.adoc, before:

= Getting started 
:description: To get started with Bonita, learn how to create your first complete living application.

{description}

[.card-section]
== Prerequisite

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:bonita-studio-download-installation.adoc[[.card-title]#Bonita Studio Installation# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Bonita's principal tool to create the main elements of all your projects]#]
--

[.card-section]
== The 9-step hands-on journey to your first Bonita Living Application

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:draw-bpmn-diagram.adoc[[.card-title]#Draw a BPMN diagram# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Process automation always starts with a process]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:define-business-data-model.adoc[[.card-title]#Define a Business Data Model (BDM)# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[The data model describes business data handled by processes]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:declare-business-variables.adoc[[.card-title]#Declare business variables# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Variables are the link between business data and processes]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:declare-contracts.adoc[[.card-title]#Declare contracts# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Contracts are interfaces allowing processes and UI to interact]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:create-web-user-interfaces.adoc[[.card-title]#Create forms# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Forms use data to feed processes through contracts]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:define-who-can-do-what.adoc[[.card-title]#Define who can do what# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Actors allow the mapping of organization entities to human tasks]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:configure-email-connector.adoc[[.card-title]#Configure an email connector# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Most of the processes need email notifications, right?]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:design-application-page.adoc[[.card-title]#Design an application page# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Pages can display more generic information than tasks forms]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:create-application.adoc[[.card-title]#Create an application# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Bind all elements together to build a rich, valuable end-user experience]#]
--

Commit message:

Delete tutorial-overview.adoc (#1663)
Co-authored-by: Adrien <adrien.lachambre@bonitasoft.com>

modules/ROOT/pages/getting-started-index.adoc, after:

= Getting started 
:description: To get started with Bonita, learn how to create your first complete living application.

{description}

In this BPM-type _Claim management_ example, the application offers customized user interfaces to end-users while standardized processes run in the background, to deliver the full potential of Bonita. +
You will then be able to adapt and extend this example to fit your own needs.

[NOTE]
====
If you have any problems while working through this tutorial, you can https://community.bonitasoft.com/questions-and-answers[ask for help on the Bonita Community web site] and/or open an issue on the Bonita https://bonita.atlassian.net/projects/BBPMC/issues[Community issue tracker].
====

[.card-section]
== Prerequisite

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:bonita-studio-download-installation.adoc[[.card-title]#Bonita Studio Installation# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Bonita's principal tool to create the main elements of all your projects]#]
--

[.card-section]
== The 9-step hands-on journey to your first Bonita Living Application

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:draw-bpmn-diagram.adoc[[.card-title]#Draw a BPMN diagram# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Process automation always starts with a process]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:define-business-data-model.adoc[[.card-title]#Define a Business Data Model (BDM)# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[The data model describes business data handled by processes]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:declare-business-variables.adoc[[.card-title]#Declare business variables# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Variables are the link between business data and processes]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:declare-contracts.adoc[[.card-title]#Declare contracts# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Contracts are interfaces allowing processes and UI to interact]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:create-web-user-interfaces.adoc[[.card-title]#Create forms# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Forms use data to feed processes through contracts]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:define-who-can-do-what.adoc[[.card-title]#Define who can do what# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Actors allow the mapping of organization entities to human tasks]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:configure-email-connector.adoc[[.card-title]#Configure an email connector# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Most of the processes need email notifications, right?]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:design-application-page.adoc[[.card-title]#Design an application page# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Pages can display more generic information than tasks forms]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:create-application.adoc[[.card-title]#Create an application# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Bind all elements together to build a rich, valuable end-user experience]#]
--
