modules/ROOT/pages/how-a-call-activity-is-executed.adoc, before:

= Call activity execution

Lean how the engine executes and aborts call activities.

== Completion

The execution flow to complete a call activity consist of two successive steps:

* Target process instance completion. Sequence flow:
 ** the target process instance is completed
 ** it registers a work to execute the parent call activity
 ** the target process stays in Completed state
* Call activity execution:
 ** Input data are mapped from the target process outputs (data mapping)
 ** Target process is archived and deleted
 ** Call activity completes

== Abortion (~ same as Cancellation)

The execution flow to abort a call activity is as follows. The cancellation of a call activity is identical, except for the state and method names (`CANCELLING` instead of `ABORTING`,`+CancelledState[...]State+` instead of `+AbortedState[...]State+`, etc.:

* Call activity is interrupted
 ** State category is put to `ABORTING`
 ** A work is registered to execute the call activity

If a work was already queued to execute the call activity, this work should fail (causing a PreconditionException) because the call activity changed in the meantime (stateCategory field of FlownodeInstance changed from `NORMAL`\->``ABORTING``)

* Call activity abortion:
 ** The method `should execute state` is called
 ** If the target process is still present, it interrupts the target process and put the call activity in state `+Aborting[...]State+`
 ** If there is no target process, the activity is put in `+AbortedState[...]State+` and a work is register to execute this state.
* Call activity waits for its target process to complete
 ** Same as <<completion,Completion>> without the data mapping

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/how-a-call-activity-is-executed.adoc, after:

= Call activity execution
:description: Lean how the engine executes and aborts call activities.

Lean how the engine executes and aborts call activities.

== Completion

The execution flow to complete a call activity consist of two successive steps:

* Target process instance completion. Sequence flow:
 ** the target process instance is completed
 ** it registers a work to execute the parent call activity
 ** the target process stays in Completed state
* Call activity execution:
 ** Input data are mapped from the target process outputs (data mapping)
 ** Target process is archived and deleted
 ** Call activity completes

== Abortion (~ same as Cancellation)

The execution flow to abort a call activity is as follows. The cancellation of a call activity is identical, except for the state and method names (`CANCELLING` instead of `ABORTING`,`+CancelledState[...]State+` instead of `+AbortedState[...]State+`, etc.:

* Call activity is interrupted
 ** State category is put to `ABORTING`
 ** A work is registered to execute the call activity

If a work was already queued to execute the call activity, this work should fail (causing a PreconditionException) because the call activity changed in the meantime (stateCategory field of FlownodeInstance changed from `NORMAL`\->``ABORTING``)

* Call activity abortion:
 ** The method `should execute state` is called
 ** If the target process is still present, it interrupts the target process and put the call activity in state `+Aborting[...]State+`
 ** If there is no target process, the activity is put in `+AbortedState[...]State+` and a work is register to execute this state.
* Call activity waits for its target process to complete
 ** Same as <<completion,Completion>> without the data mapping
