modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, before:

= Bonita Documentation
:description: Learn how to use the Bonita Platform and all of its components.

[NOTE]
====
image:images/tv.png[videos]  Discover what is new in Bonita {varVersion} thanks to these short videos in https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLvvoQatxaHOOcS6mu3PUFmVFd1lItLaXs[English], https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLvvoQatxaHOPWv6rMQPNIxzZjW6BNg75K[French], or https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLvvoQatxaHOMepAeo0jDrIR9hHfzK1NPn[Spanish]!
====

Learn how to use the Bonita Platform and all of its components.

[.card-section]
== Highlight

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc[[.card-title]#Release note {varVersion}# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A brief presentation of the new values, improvements, technical changes, deprecations, removals, and bug fixes of this release.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc#feature-transfer[[.card-title]#Stronger Open Source DNA# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Everything gets clear between the Community and Enterprise editions.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc#admin-app[[.card-title]#New Bonita Administrator application# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Use it as is, or customize it to fit your needs.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc#maintenance-compatibility[[.card-title]#Maintenance versions compatibility# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Teams can work on the same Bonita project with different Bonita Studio maintenance versions.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc#simplified-script[[.card-title]#Simplified expression editor# [.card-body]#pass:q[Business rules made accessible to business users.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc#fault-tolerance-mechanism[[.card-title]#Fault tolerance mechanism# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A new mechanism to recover from exceptional issues and ensure data resilience.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc#SSO-create-users[[.card-title]#Create a new user automatically in Bonita# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[If the user is known by the SSO, let it become a Bonita user too.]#]
--

[.card-section]
== Getting started
[.card.card-index]
--
xref:tutorial-overview.adoc[[.card-title]#Getting started tutorial# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A step-by-step creation of a first simple Living Application to learn about all the concepts in Bonita.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:diagram-overview.adoc[[.card-title]#Process diagram overview# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A BPMN definition of the logic executing in the background of th application.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:key-concepts.adoc[[.card-title]#Key concepts# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[All the concepts needed to create a Bonita automation project.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ui-designer-overview.adoc[[.card-title]#UI Designer overview# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A presentation of the tool that allows you to create pages, forms, and all UI-related artifacts.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:bonita-bpm-studio-installation.adoc[[.card-title]#Bonita Studio installation# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[The very first step to start your Bonita project.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:tomcat-bundle.adoc[[.card-title]#Basic Bonita Runtime installation# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Create Production and non-Production environments to execute your Bonita automation project.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:create-your-first-project-with-the-engine-apis-and-maven.adoc[[.card-title]#Create your first project with Engine APIs and Maven# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Set up a Maven client application using Bonita Engine APIs to run a process.]#]
--

[.card-section]
== Resources

[.card.card-index]
--
link:https://www.bonitasoft.com/downloads[[.card-title]#Download Bonita software# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A link to our Community web site, the place to get Bonita.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
link:https://www.bpmn.org[[.card-title]#BPMN standard# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A link to THE BPMN reference.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
link:https://www.bonitasoft.com/library/ultimate-guide-bpmn[[.card-title]#The Ultimate Guide to BPMN2# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Download Bonitasoft's whitepaper on BPMN2.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
link:https://javadoc.bonitasoft.com/api/{javadocVersion}/index.html[[.card-title]#Javadoc# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[The API documentation extracted from our source code.]#]
--

Commit message:

Improve index page by including directly 'what's new in Bonita' videos (#1473)
* Improve index page by embbeding video

* improve layout

* remove extra space

* Update

* fix

modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, after:

= Bonita Documentation
:description: Learn how to use the Bonita Platform and all of its components.

Learn how to use the Bonita Platform and all of its components. 

[.card-section]
== Highlights

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc[[.card-title]#Release note {varVersion}# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A brief presentation of the new values, improvements, technical changes, deprecations, removals, and bug fixes of this release.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc#feature-transfer[[.card-title]#Stronger Open Source DNA# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Everything gets clear between the Community and Enterprise editions.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc#admin-app[[.card-title]#New Bonita Administrator application# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Use it as is, or customize it to fit your needs.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc#maintenance-compatibility[[.card-title]#Maintenance versions compatibility# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Teams can work on the same Bonita project with different Bonita Studio maintenance versions.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc#simplified-script[[.card-title]#Simplified expression editor# [.card-body]#pass:q[Business rules made accessible to business users.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc#fault-tolerance-mechanism[[.card-title]#Fault tolerance mechanism# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A new mechanism to recover from exceptional issues and ensure data resilience.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:release-notes.adoc#SSO-create-users[[.card-title]#Create a new user automatically in Bonita# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[If the user is known by the SSO, let it become a Bonita user too.]#]
--

== Video: What's new in Bonita {varVersion}

{empty}

video::038g85tvzo4[youtube, width=640,height=380]

Also available in https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLvvoQatxaHOPWv6rMQPNIxzZjW6BNg75K[french] and https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLvvoQatxaHOMepAeo0jDrIR9hHfzK1NPn[spanish]!

[.card-section]
== Getting started
[.card.card-index]
--
xref:tutorial-overview.adoc[[.card-title]#Getting started tutorial# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A step-by-step creation of a first simple Living Application to learn about all the concepts in Bonita.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:diagram-overview.adoc[[.card-title]#Process diagram overview# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A BPMN definition of the logic executing in the background of th application.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:key-concepts.adoc[[.card-title]#Key concepts# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[All the concepts needed to create a Bonita automation project.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ui-designer-overview.adoc[[.card-title]#UI Designer overview# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A presentation of the tool that allows you to create pages, forms, and all UI-related artifacts.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:bonita-bpm-studio-installation.adoc[[.card-title]#Bonita Studio installation# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[The very first step to start your Bonita project.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:tomcat-bundle.adoc[[.card-title]#Basic Bonita Runtime installation# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Create Production and non-Production environments to execute your Bonita automation project.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:create-your-first-project-with-the-engine-apis-and-maven.adoc[[.card-title]#Create your first project with Engine APIs and Maven# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Set up a Maven client application using Bonita Engine APIs to run a process.]#]
--

[.card-section]
== Resources

[.card.card-index]
--
link:https://www.bonitasoft.com/downloads[[.card-title]#Download Bonita software# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A link to our Community web site, the place to get Bonita.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
link:https://www.bpmn.org[[.card-title]#BPMN standard# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[A link to THE BPMN reference.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
link:https://www.bonitasoft.com/library/ultimate-guide-bpmn[[.card-title]#The Ultimate Guide to BPMN2# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Download Bonitasoft's whitepaper on BPMN2.]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
link:https://javadoc.bonitasoft.com/api/{javadocVersion}/index.html[[.card-title]#Javadoc# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[The API documentation extracted from our source code.]#]
--
