modules/ROOT/pages/ldap.adoc, before:

= LDAP Connector
:description: The LDAP connector allows a process to retrieve data from an LDAP server by running a query.

The LDAP connector allows a process to retrieve data from an LDAP server by running a query.

If you are looking for LDAP Authentication please go to: https://documentation.bonitasoft.com/bonita/${varVersion}/active-directory-or-ldap-authentication[Active Directory or LDAP authentication].

Configuring an LDAP connector with the wizard:

. In the *General* screen:

* Enter a name and description for the connector.
* Specify whether the connector runs at the start or the end of the step.
* Specify the behavior if the connector fails.
* Click *_Next_*.

. Specify the LDAP server information:

|===
| Input | Description | Type

| Host
| IP address or name of server hosting LDAP directory
| string

| Port
| LDAP directory port number
| number

| Protocol
| LDAP directory port number
| select

| user
| LDAP user name
| string

| password
| LDAP user password
| string
|===

Then click *_Next_*.

. Specify the search criteria:

|===
| Input | Description | Type

| Base DN
| the Distinguished Name at which to start search
| string

| Filter
| specify a subset, e.g. (&(objectClass=person)(givenname=John))
| string in accordance with LDAP syntax

| Attributes
| define attributes to return in result entries using LDAP syntax
| string of strings separated by ","

| Scope
| subtree: entire subtree starting as the base DN, one level: entries immediately below the base DN, base: search just the named entry
| select

| Size limit
| maximum number of entries to return
| number

| Time limit (in seconds)
| maximum time to allow search to run
| number

| Referral handling
| ignore or follow referrals
| select

| Alias dereferencing
| always: always dereference aliases, searching: dereference aliases only after name resolution, never: never dereference aliases, finding: dereference aliases only during name resolution
| select
|===

Then click *_Next_*.

. Specify the output operations. The connector returns a list object.
. Click *_Finish_*.

Commit message:

fix: ensure that asciidoc attributes are expanded correctly
This mainly involves the 'varVersion' attribute.

Remove extra $ in links
  - github bonita-engine
  - github bonita-web
  - javadoc
Fix varVersion attribute substitution in blocks and inline code
Fix remaining attribute substitution warning (filter_name)
Replace absolute url by xref

modules/ROOT/pages/ldap.adoc, after:

= LDAP Connector
:description: The LDAP connector allows a process to retrieve data from an LDAP server by running a query.

The LDAP connector allows a process to retrieve data from an LDAP server by running a query.

If you are looking for LDAP Authentication please go to: xref:active-directory-or-ldap-authentication.adoc[Active Directory or LDAP authentication].

Configuring an LDAP connector with the wizard:

. In the *General* screen:

* Enter a name and description for the connector.
* Specify whether the connector runs at the start or the end of the step.
* Specify the behavior if the connector fails.
* Click *_Next_*.

. Specify the LDAP server information:

|===
| Input | Description | Type

| Host
| IP address or name of server hosting LDAP directory
| string

| Port
| LDAP directory port number
| number

| Protocol
| LDAP directory port number
| select

| user
| LDAP user name
| string

| password
| LDAP user password
| string
|===

Then click *_Next_*.

. Specify the search criteria:

|===
| Input | Description | Type

| Base DN
| the Distinguished Name at which to start search
| string

| Filter
| specify a subset, e.g. (&(objectClass=person)(givenname=John))
| string in accordance with LDAP syntax

| Attributes
| define attributes to return in result entries using LDAP syntax
| string of strings separated by ","

| Scope
| subtree: entire subtree starting as the base DN, one level: entries immediately below the base DN, base: search just the named entry
| select

| Size limit
| maximum number of entries to return
| number

| Time limit (in seconds)
| maximum time to allow search to run
| number

| Referral handling
| ignore or follow referrals
| select

| Alias dereferencing
| always: always dereference aliases, searching: dereference aliases only after name resolution, never: never dereference aliases, finding: dereference aliases only during name resolution
| select
|===

Then click *_Next_*.

. Specify the output operations. The connector returns a list object.
. Click *_Finish_*.
