modules/ROOT/pages/lifecycle-and-profiles.adoc, before:

= Development of a Bonita Platform Application

Typical development of an application based on the Bonita Platform follows the phases described in this document.

At different stages in the lifecycle, different people with different knowledge and skills play roles. These people are identified by profiles.

image::images/images-6_0/lifecycle-app.png[Lifecycle and profiles diagram]

There are three major phases in the lifecycle.This page introduces these three phases, and explains how the Bonita components use components to manage the features presented to users.

== Application creation phase

During this phase, the business analyst specifies the processes that are in the application and xref:diagram-overview.adoc[creates the process diagrams]. The application developer takes the specification of each process and creates a running process, adding forms, scripts or Java code if required. Each process is tested and debugged. When a process is complete, it is exported ready for deployment.

This phase needs only the Bonita Studio component of Bonita. See the xref:bonita-bpm-studio-installation.adoc[Bonita Studio installation overview] for details of how to install Bonita Studio for process creation.

The application developer also creates the application pages. When the pages are complete, they are exported and deployed in Bonita Portal. The application developer then builds the application, specifying the menus and navigation.

== System creation phase

During this phase, which typically runs in parallel with the end of the application creation phase, the platform administrator prepares
the infrastructure needed to support the deployed application. This infrastructure includes Bonita, and prerequisites such as a
database and an application server. There are many options for how Bonita can be installed: see the xref:bonita-bpm-installation-overview.adoc[Installation overview] for details.

Preparing the system also includes xref:organization-overview.adoc[defining the organization], with all the users, groups, and roles required for running processes and applications. Bonita Studio contains an example organization, ACME, which you can use for testing.

When configuration is complete, the system is ready for application deployment. The administrator deploys the processes and the application pages, and updates the configuration as needed, including xref:actors.adoc[mapping process actors] to users in the organization.

== Production phase

To xref:processes.adoc[deploy a process], you import it into Bonita Portal and start it. After the process is started, process instances can be started. The details of how process instances are started depend on the process definition.

To deploy an application, you import pages into Bonita Portal and then use the application builder to specify the application menus and navigation.

After deployment, you can use the Bonita Portal xref:live-update.adoc[live update] options to update an application or process that is in production.

== Profiles and Bonita components

Bonita Studio and Bonita Portal manage the features available according to the profile of the user.

In Bonita Studio, a user selects a profile at login, and can change profile at any time. The application developer profile gives access to all features of Bonita Studio. You can also configure the features that are visible to your profile, hiding items that are not relevant to your activity, to make the interface cleaner and easier to navigate.

In Bonita Portal, a profile is associated to a login, and by default only a user with the administrator profile can xref:profiles-overview.adoc[change the profile of a user.] A user can have any number of profiles. It is also possible to define xref:custom-profiles.adoc[custom profiles].

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/lifecycle-and-profiles.adoc, after:

= Development of a Bonita Platform Application
:description: Typical development of an application based on the Bonita Platform follows the phases described in this document.

Typical development of an application based on the Bonita Platform follows the phases described in this document.

At different stages in the lifecycle, different people with different knowledge and skills play roles. These people are identified by profiles.

image::images/images-6_0/lifecycle-app.png[Lifecycle and profiles diagram]

There are three major phases in the lifecycle.This page introduces these three phases, and explains how the Bonita components use components to manage the features presented to users.

== Application creation phase

During this phase, the business analyst specifies the processes that are in the application and xref:diagram-overview.adoc[creates the process diagrams]. The application developer takes the specification of each process and creates a running process, adding forms, scripts or Java code if required. Each process is tested and debugged. When a process is complete, it is exported ready for deployment.

This phase needs only the Bonita Studio component of Bonita. See the xref:bonita-bpm-studio-installation.adoc[Bonita Studio installation overview] for details of how to install Bonita Studio for process creation.

The application developer also creates the application pages. When the pages are complete, they are exported and deployed in Bonita Portal. The application developer then builds the application, specifying the menus and navigation.

== System creation phase

During this phase, which typically runs in parallel with the end of the application creation phase, the platform administrator prepares
the infrastructure needed to support the deployed application. This infrastructure includes Bonita, and prerequisites such as a
database and an application server. There are many options for how Bonita can be installed: see the xref:bonita-bpm-installation-overview.adoc[Installation overview] for details.

Preparing the system also includes xref:organization-overview.adoc[defining the organization], with all the users, groups, and roles required for running processes and applications. Bonita Studio contains an example organization, ACME, which you can use for testing.

When configuration is complete, the system is ready for application deployment. The administrator deploys the processes and the application pages, and updates the configuration as needed, including xref:actors.adoc[mapping process actors] to users in the organization.

== Production phase

To xref:processes.adoc[deploy a process], you import it into Bonita Portal and start it. After the process is started, process instances can be started. The details of how process instances are started depend on the process definition.

To deploy an application, you import pages into Bonita Portal and then use the application builder to specify the application menus and navigation.

After deployment, you can use the Bonita Portal xref:live-update.adoc[live update] options to update an application or process that is in production.

== Profiles and Bonita components

Bonita Studio and Bonita Portal manage the features available according to the profile of the user.

In Bonita Studio, a user selects a profile at login, and can change profile at any time. The application developer profile gives access to all features of Bonita Studio. You can also configure the features that are visible to your profile, hiding items that are not relevant to your activity, to make the interface cleaner and easier to navigate.

In Bonita Portal, a profile is associated to a login, and by default only a user with the administrator profile can xref:profiles-overview.adoc[change the profile of a user.] A user can have any number of profiles. It is also possible to define xref:custom-profiles.adoc[custom profiles].
