modules/ROOT/pages/log-files.adoc, before:

= Log files
:description: Studio log file is related to development activities, while Engine log file is related to process testing.

Studio log file is related to development activities, while Engine log file is related to process testing.

[NOTE]
====

For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only.
====

From the Bonita Studio Help menu you can access the Studio log file
and the Engine log file.

See the xref:logging.adoc[Logging overview] for details of how logging is implemented in Bonita and how to add logging to Groovy scripts or Java code that you add to a process

== Studio log file

To access the Studio log file, choose *Bonita Studio log* from the *Help* menu.

For Bonita Studio, you can set the level of logging. Edit the `config.ini` in the Studio root configuration directory and set the value of `eclipse.log.level` to ERROR, WARNING, INFO, or ALL.

|===
|  |

| ERROR
| Only error messages are logged

| WARNING
| Only error and warning messages are logged

| INFO
| Error, warning, and Info message are logged (this is the default)

| ALL
| All messages are logged, including debug information
|===

== Engine log file

When you run a process locally from Bonita Studio for testing, you can access the Engine log file by choosing *Bonita Engine log* from the *Help* menu.
The logging level for Engine when it is started from Studio is always `INFO`.

On a deployed system, you can configure the log level and you can access the log files directly, in `<TOMCAT_HOME>/server/logs`.
Each file name includes the date when the file was created. There are several log files:

* _bonita.date_.log is the Bonita Engine log file.
* _catalina.date_.log is the log file for the Tomcat application server used by Bonita Studio.
* _host-manager.date_.log, _localhost.date_.log, and _manager.date_.log are internal Tomcat log files.

Commit message:

fix(logs): studio and engine logs location

modules/ROOT/pages/log-files.adoc, after:

= Log files
:description: Studio log file is related to development activities, while Engine log file is related to process testing.

Studio log file is related to development activities, while Engine log file is related to process testing.

From the Bonita Studio Help menu you can access the Studio log file
and the Engine log file.

See the xref:logging.adoc[Logging overview] for details of how logging is implemented in Bonita and how to add logging to Groovy scripts or Java code that you add to a process

== Studio log file

To access the Studio log file, choose *Bonita Studio log* from the *Help* menu. Studio log files are located in `<STUDIO_FOLDER>/workspace/.metadata/.log` on the file system.

For Bonita Studio, you can set the level of logging. Edit the `config.ini` in the Studio root configuration directory and set the value of `eclipse.log.level` to ERROR, WARNING, INFO, or ALL.

|===
|  |

| ERROR
| Only error messages are logged

| WARNING
| Only error and warning messages are logged

| INFO
| Error, warning, and Info message are logged (this is the default)

| ALL
| All messages are logged, including debug information
|===

== Engine log file

When you run a process locally from Bonita Studio for testing, you can access the Engine log file by choosing *Bonita Engine log* from the *Help* menu. Studio engine log files are located in `<STUDIO_FOLDER>/workspace/tomcat/server/logs` on the file system.
The logging level for Engine when it is started from Studio is always `INFO`.

On a deployed system, you can configure the log level and you can access the log files directly, in `<TOMCAT_HOME>/server/logs`.
Each file name includes the date when the file was created. There are several log files:

* _bonita.date_.log is the Bonita Engine log file.
* _catalina.date_.log is the log file for the Tomcat application server used by Bonita Studio.
* _host-manager.date_.log, _localhost.date_.log, and _manager.date_.log are internal Tomcat log files.
