modules/ROOT/pages/logging.adoc, before:

= Logging in Bonita components
:description: Learn how to view and configure logging of Bonita components.

{description}

== How components produce log messages

The components of Bonita have their own ways to produce logs, which are described below.

=== Bonita Engine

All the Engine services uses SLF4J in order to write log messages.

=== Bonita Portal

The Portal uses the http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/logging/package-summary.html[Java Util Logging] (JUL) directly to log messages.

=== Bonita Studio

The Studio uses a logging service provided by the Eclipse platform. Modification of the Studio logging configuration is not very common except for debugging the Studio itself.

The Bonita Studio provides direct access to the log written by the embedded Runtime. You can access this log from the Bonita Studio *Help* menu *Show Engine log* option (*Engine log* also contains UI designer logs).

== Logging configuration

=== Bonita Engine and Bonita Portal aka Bonita Runtime

Bonita Engine uses SLF4J to create the logs as well as some Bonita dependencies such as Quartz and Ehcache.

SLF4J is a facade for various logging frameworks, and a logging framework must be available as the back-end. By default, Bonita uses JUL (Java Util Logging) as a the back-end to SLF4J.

By default in the Bonita Runtime, all logs are sent to the JUL framework. To configure what is logged and where it is stored, edit the logging.properties file located in `conf` folder (see the http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-9.0-doc/logging.html[Apache Tomcat logging documentation]) of the Bonita Bundle.

For the Bonita Runtime embedded in the Bonita Studio, the JUL configuration file is located in the Studio installation folder under
`workspace/tomcat/conf`. After editing this file, restart Bonita by going to the *Server* menu and selecting the *Restart web server* option.

Here is an example of the JUL configuration for the logger used in the <<your_log,example below>>:

[source,properties]
----
# Set log level to "finest" for newly created connector
org.mycompany.connector.level = FINEST
# Set log level to "finest" for Groovy script
org.bonitasoft.groovy.script.level = FINEST
----

=== Bonita Studio

To change the Bonita Studio log level (usually to debug Studio), go to the Studio installation folder, configuration directory, and edit the `config.ini` file. You need to set the property `eclipse.log.level` to one of the following values: INFO, WARNING or ERROR.

== How to include logging in your development on Bonita

When you write Groovy scripts or Java code to be included in a process (for example, to create a new connector implementation), logging is usually required. The recommended option is to use http://www.slf4j.org/[SLF4J] in order to log messages. SLF4J is included in the Bonita dependencies so you can use it without adding extra dependencies. However, to get completion for SLF4J classes during development you need to add the slf4j-api jar file temporarily to your process dependencies (click *_Configure_* then choose *Application dependencies*).

This is an example of how to log debug information in a Groovy script. Note that we recommend that you use a logger name that starts with "org.bonitasoft", so that the default Bonita logging configuration is applied to your logger. Also, ending your logger name with a name similar to the Groovy script will be helpful to identify source of the message.

[source,groovy]
----
import org.slf4j.Logger;
import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;

Logger logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger("org.bonitasoft.groovy.script.my_int_init_script");
logger.debug("Set initial value of process variable using Groovy script");
return Integer.valueOf(3 + 5);
----

This is an example of how to use logging in a connector:

[source,groovy]
----
private static final Logger LOGGER = LoggerFactory.getLogger(SumImpl.class);

@Override
protected void executeBusinessLogic() throws ConnectorException {
    LOGGER.debug("Trying to sum {} and {}.", getIntegerA(), getIntegerB());
    int sum = getIntegerA() + getIntegerB();
    LOGGER.debug("The sum is: {}", sum);
    setSum(sum);
}
----

== View log content

=== Bonita Studio

In Bonita Studio you have access to two log files:

* The Studio log file includes information about Studio execution. Look at this file if you see incorrect behavior of the Studio. To view the file, go to the *Help* menu and choose *Show Studio log*. The file is located in the `workspace/.metadata` folder and is named `.log`.
* The Engine and Portal log file receives all log messages produced by the Bonita Platform embedded in the Studio. When you test your processes by running them from the Studio you will find valuable debugging information in this file. To view the file, go to the *Help* menu and choose *Show Engine log*. The file is located in `workspace/tomcat/log` and is named `bonita-yyyy-mm-dd.log`.

=== Bonita Runtime

==== Packages

Logs are configured via the class package names and the main packages are `org.bonitasoft` and `com.bonitasoft` for subscription edition. +
Change these packages value to change the Bonita global log level.

==== Bonita Bundle

On a Bonita bundle, you can configure the log level and you can access the log files directly, in `BUNDLE_HOME/logs`.
Each file name includes the date when the file was created. Log files:

* _bonita.date_.log is the Bonita log file.

Commit message:

doc(Pages): Update remaining pages to remove reference to Portal (#1737)
covers [RUNTIME-525](https://bonitasoft.atlassian.net/browse/RUNTIME-525)

modules/ROOT/pages/logging.adoc, after:

= Logging in Bonita components
:description: Learn how to view and configure logging of Bonita components.

{description}

== How components produce log messages

Bonita components have their own ways to produce logs, as described below.

=== Bonita Runtime

The Bonita Runtime has two components :

- Bonita Engine, which uses SLF4J in order to write log messages.
- Bonita Rest APIs, which use http://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/util/logging/package-summary.html[Java Url Logging] (JUL)

=== Bonita Studio

The Studio uses a logging service provided by the Eclipse platform. Modification of the Studio logging configuration is not very common except for debugging the Studio itself.

The Bonita Studio provides direct access to the log written by the embedded Runtime. You can access this log from the Bonita Studio *Help* menu *Show Engine log* option (*Engine log* also contains UI designer logs).

== Logging configuration

=== Bonita Runtime

Bonita Engine uses SLF4J to create the logs as well as some Bonita dependencies such as Quartz and Ehcache.

SLF4J is a facade for various logging frameworks, and a logging framework must be available as the back-end. By default, Bonita uses JUL (Java Util Logging) as a the back-end to SLF4J.

By default in the Bonita Runtime, all logs are sent to the JUL framework. To configure what is logged and where it is stored, edit the logging.properties file located in `conf` folder (see the http://tomcat.apache.org/tomcat-9.0-doc/logging.html[Apache Tomcat logging documentation]) of the Bonita Bundle.

For the Bonita Runtime embedded in the Bonita Studio, the JUL configuration file is located in the Studio installation folder under
`workspace/tomcat/conf`. After editing this file, restart Bonita by going to the *Server* menu and selecting the *Restart web server* option.

Here is an example of the JUL configuration for the logger used in the <<your_log,example below>>:

[source,properties]
----
# Set log level to "finest" for newly created connector
org.mycompany.connector.level = FINEST
# Set log level to "finest" for Groovy script
org.bonitasoft.groovy.script.level = FINEST
----

=== Bonita Studio

To change the Bonita Studio log level (usually to debug Studio), go to the Studio installation folder, configuration directory, and edit the `config.ini` file. You need to set the property `eclipse.log.level` to one of the following values: INFO, WARNING or ERROR.

== How to include logging in your development on Bonita

When you write Groovy scripts or Java code to be included in a process (for example, to create a new connector implementation), logging is usually required. The recommended option is to use http://www.slf4j.org/[SLF4J] in order to log messages. SLF4J is included in the Bonita dependencies so you can use it without adding extra dependencies. However, to get completion for SLF4J classes during development you need to add the slf4j-api jar file temporarily to your process dependencies (click *_Configure_* then choose *Application dependencies*).

This is an example of how to log debug information in a Groovy script. Note that we recommend that you use a logger name that starts with "org.bonitasoft", so that the default Bonita logging configuration is applied to your logger. Also, ending your logger name with a name similar to the Groovy script will be helpful to identify source of the message.

[source,groovy]
----
import org.slf4j.Logger;
import org.slf4j.LoggerFactory;

Logger logger = LoggerFactory.getLogger("org.bonitasoft.groovy.script.my_int_init_script");
logger.debug("Set initial value of process variable using Groovy script");
return Integer.valueOf(3 + 5);
----

This is an example of how to use logging in a connector:

[source,groovy]
----
private static final Logger LOGGER = LoggerFactory.getLogger(SumImpl.class);

@Override
protected void executeBusinessLogic() throws ConnectorException {
    LOGGER.debug("Trying to sum {} and {}.", getIntegerA(), getIntegerB());
    int sum = getIntegerA() + getIntegerB();
    LOGGER.debug("The sum is: {}", sum);
    setSum(sum);
}
----

== View log content

=== Bonita Studio

In Bonita Studio you have access to the following log files :

* The Studio log file includes information about Studio execution. Look at this file if you see incorrect behavior of the Studio. To view the file, go to the *Help* menu and choose *Show Studio log*. The file is located in the `workspace/.metadata` folder and is named `.log`.
* The Runtime log file receives all log messages produced by the Bonita Platform embedded in the Studio. When you test your processes by running them from the Studio you will find valuable debugging information in this file. To view the file, go to the *Help* menu and choose *Show Engine log*. The file is located in `workspace/tomcat/log` and is named `bonita-yyyy-mm-dd.log`.

=== Bonita Runtime

==== Packages

Logs are configured via the class package names and the main packages are `org.bonitasoft` and `com.bonitasoft` for subscription edition. +
Change these packages value to change the Bonita global log level.

==== Bonita Bundle

On a Bonita bundle, you can configure the log level and you can access the log files directly, in `BUNDLE_HOME/logs`.
Each file name includes the date when the file was created. Log files:

* _bonita.date_.log is the Bonita log file.
