modules/ROOT/pages/manage-a-user.adoc, before:

= Administrator User list in Bonita Portal

This page explains what a user with the _Administrator_ profile in Bonita Portal can see and do about the users of the deployed organization.

Here is a view of this page:
image:images/UI2021.1/user-list-portal.png[Administrator user list Portal]
// {.img-responsive}

== Create a user

Reminder: do not create a user with the same login and password as the platform user or the technical user.

. Go to _Organization_/_Users_.
. Click on _Create_.
. In the pop-up window, enter the login, password, first name and last name of the new user.
. Click _Create_ to confirm the creation.
. A page is displayed confirming the information about the new user.

== Edit a user

. Go to _Organization_/_Users_.
. Click on a user.
. Click on _More_.
. Click on _Edit user_.
. Edit the details about the user in the popup window.
. Click _Save_.

== Add a membership to a user

. Go to _Organization_/_Users_.
. Click on a user.
. Click on _More_.
. Click on _Add membership_.
. In the pop-up window, enter the group and role.
. Click on _Add_.

== Delete a membership from a user

. Go to _Organization_/_Users_.
. Click on a user.
. Click on _More_.
. In the Membership table, find the membership to be deleted and click on _Delete_.
. In the pop-up window, click on _Delete_.

== Edit user profiles

The rights of a user are defined by mapping the user to a profile.
To map a user to a profile:

. Go to _Organization_/_Profiles_.
. Select a profile.
. Click on _More_.
. In the Users mapping section, click _Add a user_.
5.In the popup, click the checkbox to select the user to add.
. Click on _Add_.

The user is mapped to the profile.

To see all the profiles that are mapped to a user, go to the _Organization_/_Users_ and then select the user. +
The mapped profiles are shown in the Profile section on the right.

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/manage-a-user.adoc, after:

= Administrator User list in Bonita Portal
:description: This page explains what a user with the _Administrator_ profile in Bonita Portal can see and do about the users of the deployed organization.

This page explains what a user with the _Administrator_ profile in Bonita Portal can see and do about the users of the deployed organization.

Here is a view of this page:
image:images/UI2021.1/user-list-portal.png[Administrator user list Portal]
// {.img-responsive}

== Create a user

Reminder: do not create a user with the same login and password as the platform user or the technical user.

. Go to _Organization_/_Users_.
. Click on _Create_.
. In the pop-up window, enter the login, password, first name and last name of the new user.
. Click _Create_ to confirm the creation.
. A page is displayed confirming the information about the new user.

== Edit a user

. Go to _Organization_/_Users_.
. Click on a user.
. Click on _More_.
. Click on _Edit user_.
. Edit the details about the user in the popup window.
. Click _Save_.

== Add a membership to a user

. Go to _Organization_/_Users_.
. Click on a user.
. Click on _More_.
. Click on _Add membership_.
. In the pop-up window, enter the group and role.
. Click on _Add_.

== Delete a membership from a user

. Go to _Organization_/_Users_.
. Click on a user.
. Click on _More_.
. In the Membership table, find the membership to be deleted and click on _Delete_.
. In the pop-up window, click on _Delete_.

== Edit user profiles

The rights of a user are defined by mapping the user to a profile.
To map a user to a profile:

. Go to _Organization_/_Profiles_.
. Select a profile.
. Click on _More_.
. In the Users mapping section, click _Add a user_.
5.In the popup, click the checkbox to select the user to add.
. Click on _Add_.

The user is mapped to the profile.

To see all the profiles that are mapped to a user, go to the _Organization_/_Users_ and then select the user. +
The mapped profiles are shown in the Profile section on the right.
