modules/ROOT/pages/messaging.adoc, before:

= Email connector

This connector will send an email message when activated.

There is no output returned.

NOTE: There is no way to set proxy server settings in this wizard. +
If there is a Proxy server setup in the company, ask the IT department for the specific configuration.

Use the wizard and the information below to configure the connector. +
You can use the expression editor to specify an expression to provide the value, including scripts or variables. +
The expression must return a value of the required type. To specify the message content, you can also use a rich text editor.

*Connection information:*

|===
| Input | Description | Type

| SMTP Host
| IP address or name of email server
| String

| SMTP Port
| Port defined for email system
| Number

| Security > SSL (not required)
| Check the box if SSL security authorization is required
|

| Security > STARTTLS (not required)
| Check the box if STARTTLS security authorization is required
|

| Authentication > Username
| User name for the host account
| String

| Authentication > Password
| User password for the host account
| String
|===

*Addressing information:*

|===
| Input | Description | Type

| From
| Sender email address
| String

| To
| Receiver email address
| String

| Return-Path
| Email address that identifies where the email originated
| String

| Other > Reply to
| Email address to use when user tries to reply
| String

| Other > CC
| Email address to use for a copy
| String

| Other > BCC (hidden copy)
| Email address to use for a hidden copy
| String
|===

All addresses should use the syntax of https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc822.txt[RFC822]. +
It is possible to add sender name with the following syntax in the `from` input: +
`john.doe@acme.com (John Doe)` +
If the sender name contains non-ASCII characters, it is possible to specify a charset and the character hexadecimal byte(s) like this (see https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1342[rfc1342]): +
`andre.picard@acme.com (=?ISO-8859-1?Q?Andr=E9_?= Pirard)` where `E9` is the hexadecimal byte of `é` character in `ISO-8859-1` charset. +
Here is an example of a groovy expression that converts the `senderName` variable into the an rfc1342 compliant format using `UTF-8` charset:

[source,groovy]
----
"$senderAddress (=?UTF-8?Q?=${senderName.getBytes('UTF-8').collect{it & 0xFF}.collect{Integer.toHexString((int) it) }.join('=')}?=)"
----

*Message content:*

|===
| Input | Description | Type

| Subject
| Text
| String

| Message
| Message content, which can be specified with the expression editor or with a WYSIWYG editor
| String

| Attachments
| Include email attachments defined as a variables or expressions
| String
|===

*Character set and additional header information (optional):*

|===
| Input | Description | Type

| Character set
| Character set
| String

| Headers
| Add optional header information
| String
|===

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/messaging.adoc, after:

= Email connector
:description: This connector will send an email message when activated.

This connector will send an email message when activated.

There is no output returned.

NOTE: There is no way to set proxy server settings in this wizard. +
If there is a Proxy server setup in the company, ask the IT department for the specific configuration.

Use the wizard and the information below to configure the connector. +
You can use the expression editor to specify an expression to provide the value, including scripts or variables. +
The expression must return a value of the required type. To specify the message content, you can also use a rich text editor.

*Connection information:*

|===
| Input | Description | Type

| SMTP Host
| IP address or name of email server
| String

| SMTP Port
| Port defined for email system
| Number

| Security > SSL (not required)
| Check the box if SSL security authorization is required
|

| Security > STARTTLS (not required)
| Check the box if STARTTLS security authorization is required
|

| Authentication > Username
| User name for the host account
| String

| Authentication > Password
| User password for the host account
| String
|===

*Addressing information:*

|===
| Input | Description | Type

| From
| Sender email address
| String

| To
| Receiver email address
| String

| Return-Path
| Email address that identifies where the email originated
| String

| Other > Reply to
| Email address to use when user tries to reply
| String

| Other > CC
| Email address to use for a copy
| String

| Other > BCC (hidden copy)
| Email address to use for a hidden copy
| String
|===

All addresses should use the syntax of https://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc822.txt[RFC822]. +
It is possible to add sender name with the following syntax in the `from` input: +
`john.doe@acme.com (John Doe)` +
If the sender name contains non-ASCII characters, it is possible to specify a charset and the character hexadecimal byte(s) like this (see https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc1342[rfc1342]): +
`andre.picard@acme.com (=?ISO-8859-1?Q?Andr=E9_?= Pirard)` where `E9` is the hexadecimal byte of `é` character in `ISO-8859-1` charset. +
Here is an example of a groovy expression that converts the `senderName` variable into the an rfc1342 compliant format using `UTF-8` charset:

[source,groovy]
----
"$senderAddress (=?UTF-8?Q?=${senderName.getBytes('UTF-8').collect{it & 0xFF}.collect{Integer.toHexString((int) it) }.join('=')}?=)"
----

*Message content:*

|===
| Input | Description | Type

| Subject
| Text
| String

| Message
| Message content, which can be specified with the expression editor or with a WYSIWYG editor
| String

| Attachments
| Include email attachments defined as a variables or expressions
| String
|===

*Character set and additional header information (optional):*

|===
| Input | Description | Type

| Character set
| Character set
| String

| Headers
| Add optional header information
| String
|===
