modules/ROOT/pages/migration-tool.adoc, before:

= Migration tool changelog

This is the changelog of the migration tool.

All changes in the Migration Tool are logged: from the version that was delivered with the oldest supported version of Bonita to the one delivered with the latest version of Bonita.
This is due to the fact that improvements in any version of the Migration Tool can affect all supported versions of Bonita.
This changelog must be read before xref:migrate-from-an-earlier-version-of-bonita-bpm.adoc[migrating to a newer version of Bonita].

== 2.54.0 - January 28th, 2021 (Bonita 2021.1(7.12))

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version Bonita 2021.1(7.12)
No bug fix.

== 2.53.0 - October 1st, 2020 (Bonita 7.11.2, 7.10.6)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.11 and 7.10.6
No bug fix.

== 2.52.0 - June 18th, 2020 (Bonita 7.11.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.11
No bug fix.

== 2.51.0 - June 04th, 2020 (Bonita 7.10.5)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.10.5
No bug fix.

== 2.50.0 - April 02nd, 2020 (Bonita 7.10.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.10.4

* Add new migration mode to link:migrate-from-an-earlier-version-of-bonita-bpm.md#update-case-overview-pages[migrate old V6 (GWT) Case Overview pages to new V7 autogenerated Case Overview pages],
in order to ease the migration to 7.8.0+.
* BS-19473 - Migration to 7.8.0 does not work on multi-tenant environments

== 2.49.0 - March 06th, 2020 (Bonita 7.10.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.10.3

* Added migration step to 7.9.5 ( in addition to 7.10.3 )

== 2.47.0 - February 06th, 2020 (Bonita 7.10.1)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.10.1

* No bug fix.

== 2.46.1 - December 19th, 2019 (Bonita 7.10.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.10.0.

* Restore the possibility to migrate to version 7.9.4 (erroneously removed)

== 2.46.0 - December 5th, 2019 (Bonita 7.10.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.10.0.

* Add a live-migration tool to reintegrate arch_contract_data_backup into arch_contract_data table
* BR-238 - include Live Migration in Migration Tool distribution
* BR-236 - fix in Live Migration tool
* BR-240 - fix in Live Migration tool
* BS-19380 - ensure Oracle is on a supported version on step 7.9.0

== 2.45.0 - October 3rd, 2019 (Bonita 7.9.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.9.4.

* Add a new script `check-migration-dryrun`

== 2.44.0 - September 5th, 2019 (Bonita 7.9.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.9.3.

* No bug fix.

== 2.43.0 - August 1st, 2019 (Bonita 7.9.2)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.9.2.

* BS-19371 Migration to 7.7.0 (sometimes) fails when recreating arch_contract_data PK on oracle with migration tool 2.42.0.

== 2.42.0 - July 4th, 2019 (Bonita 7.9.1)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.9.1.

* BS-19362 NullPointerException when replacing connector implementation with Java 11-compatible version (in Bonita 7.9.0 migration step)
* BR-145 Automate backup of arch_contract_data table (in Bonita 7.7.0 migration step)

== 2.41.0 - June 13th, 2019 (Bonita 7.9.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.9.0.

* No bug fix.

== 2.40.3 - May 27th, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.4.

* BS-19346 reduce disk space used when migrating (archived) contract data in version 7.7.0

== 2.40.2 - May 23rd, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.4.

* Configuration: make datasource pool size configurable
* Logs: introduce timestamp in the log files
* BS-19267 improve performance when migrating (archived) contract data in version 7.7.0

== 2.40.1 - May 17th, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.4.

* BS-19346 fix SQL pagination when migrating (archived) contract data in version 7.7.0

== 2.40.0 - April. 12th, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.4.

* No bug fix.

== 2.39.0 - Mar. 7th, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.3.
Because some bugs in Bonita Development Suite have been found, this migration tool will not allow the migration to 7.8.0, 7.8.1, or 7.8.2.

* No bug fix.

== 2.38.0 - Fev. 8th, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.2)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.2.

* No bug fix.

== 2.37.0 - Jan. 23rd, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.1)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.1.

* No bug fix.

== 2.36.1 - Dec. 17th, 2018 (Bonita 7.8.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.0. and contains one bug fix:

* BS-19198 2.36.0 Migration tool: performance improvements on arch_contract_data table migration are missing

== 2.36.0 - Dec. 6th, 2018 (Bonita 7.8.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.0.

* No bug fix.

== 2.35.0 - Nov. 22th, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.5)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.5. and contains some bug fixes:

* BS-18879 Migration to 7.7.0+ takes several hours when the contract data tables are large
* BS-19073 Archived contract data are never deleted

== 2.34.0 - Sep. 6th, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.4. and contains one bug fix:

* BS-18657 Data truncation error when migrating from v7.6.3 to v7.7.0

== 2.33.1 - Aug. 16th, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.3. and contains one bug fix:

* BS-18657 Data truncation error when migrating from v7.6.3 to v7.7.0

== 2.33.0 - Aug. 2nd, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.3. and contains some bug fixes:

* BS-17796 Live update broken after migration: "Batch entry 0 insert into dependency " message is generated when changing connector implementation with dependency
* BS-18571 Migration displays inaccurate warning messages when migrating to 7.4.0 and 7.6.0
* BS-18578 Migration should not display the database password
* BS-18584 Migration should log the edition and the version of the tool at startup

== 2.32.0 - Jul. 9th, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.2)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.2. and contains some bug fixes:

* BS-17381 Migration fails on SQL Server when migrating from 6.3.3 to 7.4.0 and above
* BS-18534 Migration to 7.7.0 fails on MySQL 5.6+
* BS-18535 BDM update fails in server with previous BDM migrated to 7.7.1

== 2.31.1 - Jun. 21st, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.1)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.1.

* No bug fix.

== 2.30.3 - Jun. 14th, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.0. and contains some bug fixes:

* BS-18435   Migration to 7.7.0 fails when contract input is null in database
* BS-18313   Error when migrating 6.x subprocesses that were first migrated with migration tool version prior to 2.21.1
* BS-18211 QLException: migration to 7.5.0 is failing depending on the compound-permissions-mapping.properties file content

== 2.30.0 - Jun. 7th, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.0. and contains one bug fix:

* BS-18211 QLException: migration to 7.5.0 is failing depending on the compound-permissions-mapping.properties file content

== 2.29.1 - May 15th, 2018 (Bonita 7.6.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.6.3. and contains one bug fix:

* BS-18338 After migration multi-iteration send task does not work

== 2.29.0 - Mar. 1st, 2018 (Bonita 7.6.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.6.3.

* No bug fix.

== 2.28.0 - Jan. 30th, 2018 (Bonita 7.6.2)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.6.2.

* No bug fix.

== 2.27.0 - Jan. 4th, 2018 (Bonita 7.6.1)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.6.1.

* No bug fix.

== 2.26.0 - Dec. 7th, 2017 (Bonita 7.6.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.6.0.

* No bug fix.

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/migration-tool.adoc, after:

= Migration tool changelog
:description: This is the changelog of the migration tool.

This is the changelog of the migration tool.

All changes in the Migration Tool are logged: from the version that was delivered with the oldest supported version of Bonita to the one delivered with the latest version of Bonita.
This is due to the fact that improvements in any version of the Migration Tool can affect all supported versions of Bonita.
This changelog must be read before xref:migrate-from-an-earlier-version-of-bonita-bpm.adoc[migrating to a newer version of Bonita].

== 2.54.0 - January 28th, 2021 (Bonita 2021.1(7.12))

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version Bonita 2021.1(7.12)
No bug fix.

== 2.53.0 - October 1st, 2020 (Bonita 7.11.2, 7.10.6)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.11 and 7.10.6
No bug fix.

== 2.52.0 - June 18th, 2020 (Bonita 7.11.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.11
No bug fix.

== 2.51.0 - June 04th, 2020 (Bonita 7.10.5)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.10.5
No bug fix.

== 2.50.0 - April 02nd, 2020 (Bonita 7.10.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.10.4

* Add new migration mode to link:migrate-from-an-earlier-version-of-bonita-bpm.md#update-case-overview-pages[migrate old V6 (GWT) Case Overview pages to new V7 autogenerated Case Overview pages],
in order to ease the migration to 7.8.0+.
* BS-19473 - Migration to 7.8.0 does not work on multi-tenant environments

== 2.49.0 - March 06th, 2020 (Bonita 7.10.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.10.3

* Added migration step to 7.9.5 ( in addition to 7.10.3 )

== 2.47.0 - February 06th, 2020 (Bonita 7.10.1)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.10.1

* No bug fix.

== 2.46.1 - December 19th, 2019 (Bonita 7.10.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.10.0.

* Restore the possibility to migrate to version 7.9.4 (erroneously removed)

== 2.46.0 - December 5th, 2019 (Bonita 7.10.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.10.0.

* Add a live-migration tool to reintegrate arch_contract_data_backup into arch_contract_data table
* BR-238 - include Live Migration in Migration Tool distribution
* BR-236 - fix in Live Migration tool
* BR-240 - fix in Live Migration tool
* BS-19380 - ensure Oracle is on a supported version on step 7.9.0

== 2.45.0 - October 3rd, 2019 (Bonita 7.9.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.9.4.

* Add a new script `check-migration-dryrun`

== 2.44.0 - September 5th, 2019 (Bonita 7.9.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.9.3.

* No bug fix.

== 2.43.0 - August 1st, 2019 (Bonita 7.9.2)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.9.2.

* BS-19371 Migration to 7.7.0 (sometimes) fails when recreating arch_contract_data PK on oracle with migration tool 2.42.0.

== 2.42.0 - July 4th, 2019 (Bonita 7.9.1)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.9.1.

* BS-19362 NullPointerException when replacing connector implementation with Java 11-compatible version (in Bonita 7.9.0 migration step)
* BR-145 Automate backup of arch_contract_data table (in Bonita 7.7.0 migration step)

== 2.41.0 - June 13th, 2019 (Bonita 7.9.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.9.0.

* No bug fix.

== 2.40.3 - May 27th, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.4.

* BS-19346 reduce disk space used when migrating (archived) contract data in version 7.7.0

== 2.40.2 - May 23rd, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.4.

* Configuration: make datasource pool size configurable
* Logs: introduce timestamp in the log files
* BS-19267 improve performance when migrating (archived) contract data in version 7.7.0

== 2.40.1 - May 17th, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.4.

* BS-19346 fix SQL pagination when migrating (archived) contract data in version 7.7.0

== 2.40.0 - April. 12th, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.4.

* No bug fix.

== 2.39.0 - Mar. 7th, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.3.
Because some bugs in Bonita Development Suite have been found, this migration tool will not allow the migration to 7.8.0, 7.8.1, or 7.8.2.

* No bug fix.

== 2.38.0 - Fev. 8th, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.2)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.2.

* No bug fix.

== 2.37.0 - Jan. 23rd, 2019 (Bonita 7.8.1)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.1.

* No bug fix.

== 2.36.1 - Dec. 17th, 2018 (Bonita 7.8.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.0. and contains one bug fix:

* BS-19198 2.36.0 Migration tool: performance improvements on arch_contract_data table migration are missing

== 2.36.0 - Dec. 6th, 2018 (Bonita 7.8.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.8.0.

* No bug fix.

== 2.35.0 - Nov. 22th, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.5)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.5. and contains some bug fixes:

* BS-18879 Migration to 7.7.0+ takes several hours when the contract data tables are large
* BS-19073 Archived contract data are never deleted

== 2.34.0 - Sep. 6th, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.4)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.4. and contains one bug fix:

* BS-18657 Data truncation error when migrating from v7.6.3 to v7.7.0

== 2.33.1 - Aug. 16th, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.3. and contains one bug fix:

* BS-18657 Data truncation error when migrating from v7.6.3 to v7.7.0

== 2.33.0 - Aug. 2nd, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.3. and contains some bug fixes:

* BS-17796 Live update broken after migration: "Batch entry 0 insert into dependency " message is generated when changing connector implementation with dependency
* BS-18571 Migration displays inaccurate warning messages when migrating to 7.4.0 and 7.6.0
* BS-18578 Migration should not display the database password
* BS-18584 Migration should log the edition and the version of the tool at startup

== 2.32.0 - Jul. 9th, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.2)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.2. and contains some bug fixes:

* BS-17381 Migration fails on SQL Server when migrating from 6.3.3 to 7.4.0 and above
* BS-18534 Migration to 7.7.0 fails on MySQL 5.6+
* BS-18535 BDM update fails in server with previous BDM migrated to 7.7.1

== 2.31.1 - Jun. 21st, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.1)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.1.

* No bug fix.

== 2.30.3 - Jun. 14th, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.0. and contains some bug fixes:

* BS-18435   Migration to 7.7.0 fails when contract input is null in database
* BS-18313   Error when migrating 6.x subprocesses that were first migrated with migration tool version prior to 2.21.1
* BS-18211 QLException: migration to 7.5.0 is failing depending on the compound-permissions-mapping.properties file content

== 2.30.0 - Jun. 7th, 2018 (Bonita 7.7.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.7.0. and contains one bug fix:

* BS-18211 QLException: migration to 7.5.0 is failing depending on the compound-permissions-mapping.properties file content

== 2.29.1 - May 15th, 2018 (Bonita 7.6.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.6.3. and contains one bug fix:

* BS-18338 After migration multi-iteration send task does not work

== 2.29.0 - Mar. 1st, 2018 (Bonita 7.6.3)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.6.3.

* No bug fix.

== 2.28.0 - Jan. 30th, 2018 (Bonita 7.6.2)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.6.2.

* No bug fix.

== 2.27.0 - Jan. 4th, 2018 (Bonita 7.6.1)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.6.1.

* No bug fix.

== 2.26.0 - Dec. 7th, 2017 (Bonita 7.6.0)

This version of the migration tool migrates Bonita up to version 7.6.0.

* No bug fix.
