modules/ROOT/pages/mobile-portal.adoc, before:

= Mobile User Portal

This page gives an overview of the use of Bonita User Portal on mobile devices.

Bonita Portal has a mobile version to be used by the _User_ profile only, available in Efficiency, Performance, and Enterprise editions. +
Users can view a list of the processes they have the permission to start, start a new instance of a process, view a list of tasks, and do tasks.

NOTE:
As xref:bonita-bpm-portal-interface-overview.adoc[Bonita Portal will soon be replaced] by Bonita applications in a next version, and as the Bonita User Application is responsive, the Mobile Portal will not be supported anymore. It will be replaced by the *Bonita User Application*, available to all Bonita editions.


The following applies to Bonita Mobile Portal.

== Access

Add `/mobile` after Bonita in the URL

For example: http://localhost:8080/bonita/mobile

== Login

The same user login and password as in Bonita Portal must be used (login is based on the same database).

== Profile

The _User_ profile is mapped to this mobile version.

== Language

To change the language of the Mobile Portal, change it Bonita Portal. To know more, seexref:languages.adoc[Languages]

== Navigation

The navigation is slightly different from the Portal (first choose a filter to list the corresponding tasks, then click on a task in the list to display it).

NOTE:
Note: to display forms properly in the mobile version, forms must only contain one column. If there are more than one, users will need to right scroll to display all the form, which does not provide the best user experience.


== Start a new case

To start a case from the mobile version:

. Click on *_Apps_* to see a list of the processes for which you can start a case.
. Click on an App to start a case.

Here are some examples of the mobile user screens:

image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_0.login.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_1b.tasksapps.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_2.available.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_3.todo.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_4.tasks.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_7.step1_comments.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_8.step1_details.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_9.step1_subtasks.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_6.addsubtask2.png[Mobile_interface]

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/mobile-portal.adoc, after:

= Mobile User Portal
:description: This page gives an overview of the use of Bonita User Portal on mobile devices.

This page gives an overview of the use of Bonita User Portal on mobile devices.

Bonita Portal has a mobile version to be used by the _User_ profile only, available in Efficiency, Performance, and Enterprise editions. +
Users can view a list of the processes they have the permission to start, start a new instance of a process, view a list of tasks, and do tasks.

[NOTE]
====

As xref:bonita-bpm-portal-interface-overview.adoc[Bonita Portal will soon be replaced] by Bonita applications in a next version, and as the Bonita User Application is responsive, the Mobile Portal will not be supported anymore. It will be replaced by the *Bonita User Application*, available to all Bonita editions.
====

The following applies to Bonita Mobile Portal.

== Access

Add `/mobile` after Bonita in the URL

For example: http://localhost:8080/bonita/mobile

== Login

The same user login and password as in Bonita Portal must be used (login is based on the same database).

== Profile

The _User_ profile is mapped to this mobile version.

== Language

To change the language of the Mobile Portal, change it Bonita Portal. To know more, seexref:languages.adoc[Languages]

== Navigation

The navigation is slightly different from the Portal (first choose a filter to list the corresponding tasks, then click on a task in the list to display it).

[NOTE]
====

Note: to display forms properly in the mobile version, forms must only contain one column. If there are more than one, users will need to right scroll to display all the form, which does not provide the best user experience.
====

== Start a new case

To start a case from the mobile version:

. Click on *_Apps_* to see a list of the processes for which you can start a case.
. Click on an App to start a case.

Here are some examples of the mobile user screens:

image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_0.login.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_1b.tasksapps.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_2.available.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_3.todo.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_4.tasks.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_7.step1_comments.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_8.step1_details.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_9.step1_subtasks.png[Mobile_interface] image:images/images-6_0/mobile7.x_6.addsubtask2.png[Mobile_interface]
