modules/ROOT/pages/pages-development.adoc, before:

= Pages development

:description: A page presents information to a user or can also collect information entered by a user. +

A page presents information to a user or can also collect information entered by a user. +
Displayed in a browser, a xref:pages.adoc[page] is intended for use in applications.

== Provided pages

You do not need to create all your pages from scratch. Bonita already provides some pages. +
Bonita Portal "Resources" section lists all the non-UI Designer-made pages, that can be reused as is in an application.
By downloading the Bonita User and Administrator applications from Bonita Studio Welcome page, you also download Bonita pages created with Bonita UI Designer. +
Those pages can be customized and added to an application.

== Custom pages

A page resource has the general xref:resource-management.adoc[resource definition].
If it contains an `Index.groovy` file, this must implement the PageController interface optionally with libraries.
If you create a custom page with Bonita UI Designer, its required structure and content are right, by default.

A custom page is displayed inside an iframe to prevent conflicts between Bonita Portal resources (for example JS and CSS) and those used in the custom page.
This also reduces the risk of migration issues, for example if a custom page uses the version of JQuery provided with Bonita Portal and it is updated.

=== PageController interface

[source,java]
----
public interface PageController {

/**
* Let the custom page parse request for specific attribute handling.
*
* @param request the HTTP servlet request intended to be used as in a servlet
* @param response the HTTP servlet response intended to be used as in a servlet
* @param pageResourceProvider provide access to the resources contained in the custom page zip
* @param pageContext provide access to the data relative to the context in which the custom page is displayed
*/
public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response, PageResourceProvider pageResourceProvider, PageContext pageContext);
}
----

=== Permissions for custom pages

If your custom page is an HTML page using the Web REST API,
you need to specify the xref:rest-api-authorization.adoc[REST API authorizations] that a user needs to have in order to access the resources in the custom page.
These resource authorizations are defined in the `page.properties` file. If your custom page is written in Groovy and uses the Bonita Engine Java APIs, you do not need to specify any resource authorization.

For each REST resource accessed in the page, specify the authorization needed for each method used. +
You can find examples of the default resources in xref:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.adoc[`resources-permissions-mapping.properties`].

The following example shows the resource authorizations defined for a custom page that enables a user to view but not update organization information:

----
#The name must start with 'custompage_'
name=custompage_orgViewer
displayName=Organization viewer
description=Organization viewer page. You cannot modify the organization from this page.
resources=[GET|identity/user, GET|identity/personalcontactdata, GET|identity/professionalcontactdata, GET|identity/role, GET|identity/group, GET|identity/membership, GET|customuserinfo/user, GET|customuserinfo/definition, GET|customuserinfo/value]
----

When a user is given access to this page because they are in a profile that contains it or that is mapped to an application that contains the page, then this user is granted, upon login, the permissions associated to these resources (see xref:rest-api-authorization.adoc[REST API authorizations] for more details).

=== Custom page examples

Two custom page examples are available in Bonita Portal. Both examples show how to:

* Get the Bonita CSS
* Write simple HTML code
* Get session information, including the locale
* Get resources from the custom page definition
* Call the Engine Java APIs (in the Groovy example) or the Web REST APIs (in the.md example)
* Write a clickable link to an external page
* Write a clickable link to a portal page
* Write locale-specific messages

*Groovy example page* defines a custom page using Groovy.
*HTML example page* defines a custom page using only HTML.
In practice, you will probably use a combination of Groovy and HTML to create your custom pages.

To view an example page, map the page to an xref:applications.adoc[application] so that you can view it in Bonita Portal. To view the source of an example, xref:resource-management.adoc]#export[export the custom page].

=== Reuse Bonita Portal content

You can reuse pages from Bonita Portal in your custom pages. For example, in a page that gives details of a case history, you could include the case status diagram to show the current status. For example, for case 1 of process definition 8270554088248243867, include these lines in your custom page definition:

[source,groovy]
----
def idProcess = "8270554088248243867";
def idCase = "1";
out.write("""<iframe src=../portal.js/#/admin/monitoring/${idProcess}-${idCase}" style="width:100%; height:100%"></iframe>""");
----

This displays the case status diagram exactly as it appears in the standard Bonita Portal page. You can modify the view to hide the Portal _Back_ button by adding `?diagramOnly` to the URL:

[source,groovy]
----
out.write("""<iframe src=../portal.js/#/admin/monitoring/${idProcess}-${idCase}?diagramOnly}" style="width:100%; height:100%"></iframe>""");
----

=== Debugging a custom page in development

While you are developing a custom page, you can enable custom page debug mode. In debug mode, you can see changes to your custom page without importing a new .zip archive.

To enable custom page debug mode, edit xref:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.adoc[`console-config.properties`] and set `custom.page.debug` to `true`.

To work on a page in debug mode:

[NOTE]
====

On a Tomcat installation, `<java.io.tmpdir>` points to `<BUNDLE_HOME>/temp/`
====

. Import your custom page zip archive into the portal. This creates a directory `<java.io.tmpdir>/bonita_portal_*/tenants/tenant_id/pages/custompage_<your custom page>`.
. Publish the page to a profile, then log out and log in as a user having this profile.
. You can now update `Index.groovy` and the contents of the `lib` directory directly in `<java.io.tmpdir>/bonita_portal_*/tenants/tenant_id/pages/custompage_<your custom page>`.
. To view the page after you modify it, refresh the page in the browser.

When you have finished developing the page, recreate the custom page zip archive, and then modify the page to import it. This makes your final version of the page permanently available.

[NOTE]
====

In Bonita Studio, the debug mode is enabled by default. +
If you want to disable it, you need to use the setup tool provided in `workspace/tomcat/setup/` to update `console-config.properties` (Update the file database.properties first so it points to the target database. E.g.: h2.database.dir=../../default/h2_database).
====

=== Constraints

A custom page is displayed in an iframe in the Bonita Portal, so is isolated from changes to the portal.
When you migrate to a newer version of Bonita, your custom page definition should still be valid.
However, this cannot be guaranteed for all future migrations.

=== Page resources management

==== Page resources

Custom page resources can be accessed by a `PageResourceProvider`.

The `bonita.css` can be retrieved using `pageResourceProvider.getBonitaThemeCSSURL()`

Other `css/js` resources can be retrieved using `pageResourceProvider.getResourceURL("<path in the custom page resources folder>")`

If you are not using Groovy you can directly access a resource by adding a link in `index.html`.

For example: `<link href="css/file.css" rel="stylesheet" />`

==== API access

If your page is viewed in a custom profile or in an application, you will have access facilities for xref:rest-api-overview.adoc[the portal API].

you will be able to access the portal API using the following path: `../API/{API name}/{resource name}`

==== Theme access

If your page is viewed in an application, you will have access facilities for xref:applications.adoc[the application theme].

The `Theme.css` is directly accessible by adding the following link in `index.html`: `<link href="../theme/theme.css" rel="stylesheet" />`

Commit message:

feat(Portal): Remove mention of Portal from documentation part 4 (#1707)
* feat(Portal): Remove mention of Portal from documentation part 4
covers [RUNTIME-304](https://bonitasoft.atlassian.net/browse/RUNTIME-304)

modules/ROOT/pages/pages-development.adoc, after:

= Pages development
:description: A page presents information to a user or can also collect information entered by a user. +


{description} +
Displayed in a browser, a xref:pages.adoc[page] is intended for use in applications.

== Provided pages

You do not need to create all your pages from scratch. Bonita already provides some pages. +
Bonita Administrator Application "Resources" tab lists all the non-UI Designer-made pages, that can be reused "as-is" in an application.
By downloading the Bonita User and Administrator applications from Bonita Studio Welcome page, you also download Bonita pages created with Bonita UI Designer. +
Those pages can be customized and added to an application.

== Custom pages

A page resource has the general xref:resource-management.adoc[resource definition].
If it contains an `Index.groovy` file, this must implement the PageController interface optionally with libraries.
If you create a custom page with Bonita UI Designer, its structure and content will be congruent by default.

A custom page is displayed inside an iframe to prevent conflicts between resources (for example JS and CSS) and those used in the custom page.
This also reduces the risk of migration issues, for example if a custom page uses a version of JQuery that gets updated.

=== PageController interface

[source,java]
----
public interface PageController {

/**
* Let the custom page parse request for specific attribute handling.
*
* @param request the HTTP servlet request intended to be used as in a servlet
* @param response the HTTP servlet response intended to be used as in a servlet
* @param pageResourceProvider provide access to the resources contained in the custom page zip
* @param pageContext provide access to the data relative to the context in which the custom page is displayed
*/
public void doGet(HttpServletRequest request, HttpServletResponse response, PageResourceProvider pageResourceProvider, PageContext pageContext);
}
----

=== Permissions for custom pages

If your custom page is an HTML page using the Web REST API,
you need to specify the xref:rest-api-authorization.adoc[REST API authorizations] that a user needs to have in order to access the resources in the custom page.
These resource authorizations are defined in the `page.properties` file. If your custom page is written in Groovy and uses the Bonita Engine Java APIs, you do not need to specify any resource authorization.

For each REST resource accessed in the page, specify the authorization needed for each method used. +
You can find examples of the default resources in xref:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.adoc[`resources-permissions-mapping.properties`].

The following example shows the resource authorizations defined for a custom page that enables a user to view but not update organization information:

----
#The name must start with 'custompage_'
name=custompage_orgViewer
displayName=Organization viewer
description=Organization viewer page. You cannot modify the organization from this page.
resources=[GET|identity/user, GET|identity/personalcontactdata, GET|identity/professionalcontactdata, GET|identity/role, GET|identity/group, GET|identity/membership, GET|customuserinfo/user, GET|customuserinfo/definition, GET|customuserinfo/value]
----

When a user is given access to this page because they are in a profile that contains it or that is mapped to an application that contains the page, then this user is granted, upon login, the permissions associated to these resources (see xref:rest-api-authorization.adoc[REST API authorizations] for more details).

=== Reuse Bonita Portal content

You can reuse pages from Bonita Portal in your custom pages. For example, in a page that gives details of a case history, you could include the case status diagram to show the current status. For example, for case 1 of process definition 8270554088248243867, include these lines in your custom page definition:

[source,groovy]
----
def idProcess = "8270554088248243867";
def idCase = "1";
out.write("""<iframe src=../portal.js/#/admin/monitoring/${idProcess}-${idCase}" style="width:100%; height:100%"></iframe>""");
----

This displays the case status diagram exactly as it appears in the standard Bonita Portal page. You can modify the view to hide the Portal _Back_ button by adding `?diagramOnly` to the URL:

[source,groovy]
----
out.write("""<iframe src=../portal.js/#/admin/monitoring/${idProcess}-${idCase}?diagramOnly}" style="width:100%; height:100%"></iframe>""");
----

=== Debugging a custom page in development

While you are developing a custom page, you can enable custom page debug mode. In debug mode, you can see changes to your custom page without importing a new .zip archive.

To enable custom page debug mode, edit xref:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.adoc[`console-config.properties`] and set `custom.page.debug` to `true`.

To work on a page in debug mode:

[NOTE]
====

On a Tomcat installation, `<java.io.tmpdir>` points to `<BUNDLE_HOME>/temp/`
====

. Import your custom page zip archive into the portal. This creates a directory `<java.io.tmpdir>/bonita_portal_*/tenants/tenant_id/pages/custompage_<your custom page>`.
. Publish the page to a profile, then log out and log in as a user having this profile.
. You can now update `Index.groovy` and the contents of the `lib` directory directly in `<java.io.tmpdir>/bonita_portal_*/tenants/tenant_id/pages/custompage_<your custom page>`.
. To view the page after you modify it, refresh the page in the browser.

When you have finished developing the page, recreate the custom page zip archive, and then modify the page to import it. This makes your final version of the page permanently available.

[NOTE]
====

In Bonita Studio, the debug mode is enabled by default. +
If you want to disable it, you need to use the setup tool provided in `workspace/tomcat/setup/` to update `console-config.properties` (Update the file database.properties first so it points to the target database. E.g.: h2.database.dir=../../default/h2_database).
====

=== Constraints

When you update to a newer version of Bonita, your custom page definition should still be valid.
However, this cannot be guaranteed for all future updates.

=== Page resources management

==== Page resources

Custom page resources can be accessed by a `PageResourceProvider`.

The `bonita.css` can be retrieved using `pageResourceProvider.getBonitaThemeCSSURL()`

Other `css/js` resources can be retrieved using `pageResourceProvider.getResourceURL("<path in the custom page resources folder>")`

If you are not using Groovy you can directly access a resource by adding a link in `index.html`.

For example: `<link href="css/file.css" rel="stylesheet" />`

==== API access

If your page is viewed in a custom profile or in an application, you will have access facilities for xref:rest-api-overview.adoc[the REST API].

you will be able to access any REST API using the following path: `../API/{API name}/{resource name}`

==== Theme access

If your page is viewed in an application, you will have access facilities for xref:applications.adoc[the application theme].

The `Theme.css` is directly accessible by adding the following link in `index.html`: `<link href="../theme/theme.css" rel="stylesheet" />`
