modules/ROOT/pages/pages.adoc, before:

= Pages

Pages are resources intended to be used in applications. They are xref:resource-management.adoc[added, exported, edited, and deleted] as resources in Bonita Portal.

== Provided pages

Bonita Portal comes with some provided pages to use in applications. They are wrapped pages developed in other technologies than Bonita UI Designer (AngularJS, React, PortalJS). +
Starting with Bonita 2021.1, you can also download the Bonita User and Administrator Applications (from Bonita Studio Welcome page), and get more provided pages, developped with Bonita UI Designer.

== Custom pages

To create the perfect user experience for different profiles of applications users, you need to create custom pages. This can be done with Bonita UI Designer, or in your favorite IDE.
A few examples of custom pages:

* Add a welcome page, with dashboards showing activity in Bonita and related external applications.
* Provide a process owner with a dashboard showing the activity of open cases of the process.
* Provide a busy user with a filtered view of the task list.
* Provide an administrator with a multi-attribute search facility.
* Integrate a page from an external application.

For all information about developping a custom page, go to xref:page-and-form-development-overview.adoc[page and form development overview].

== Use in applications

Once the pages are all made available in the Resources section of Bonita Portal, they can be used to xref:applicationCreation.adoc[create applications]. +
We highly recommend that the creation of applications is done in Bonita Studio, to be managed with all the other resources of the project in the Version Control System (Git).

== Live update

xref:live-update.adoc[Live update] allows the Administrator to update one element of the application in a situation of emergency.

=== Edit a page

You can link:resource-management.md#modify[edit the content of a page] by installing a new version of a page.

=== Modify the pages in an application

You can modify the pages in an application by link:applications.md#specify-pages[mapping other pages] in the application descriptor, and/or link:applications.md#define-navigation[creating, moving, or deleting menus or menu options].

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/pages.adoc, after:

= Pages
:description: Pages are resources intended to be used in applications. They are xref:resource-management.adoc[added, exported, edited, and deleted] as resources in Bonita Portal.

Pages are resources intended to be used in applications. They are xref:resource-management.adoc[added, exported, edited, and deleted] as resources in Bonita Portal.

== Provided pages

Bonita Portal comes with some provided pages to use in applications. They are wrapped pages developed in other technologies than Bonita UI Designer (AngularJS, React, PortalJS). +
Starting with Bonita 2021.1, you can also download the Bonita User and Administrator Applications (from Bonita Studio Welcome page), and get more provided pages, developped with Bonita UI Designer.

== Custom pages

To create the perfect user experience for different profiles of applications users, you need to create custom pages. This can be done with Bonita UI Designer, or in your favorite IDE.
A few examples of custom pages:

* Add a welcome page, with dashboards showing activity in Bonita and related external applications.
* Provide a process owner with a dashboard showing the activity of open cases of the process.
* Provide a busy user with a filtered view of the task list.
* Provide an administrator with a multi-attribute search facility.
* Integrate a page from an external application.

For all information about developping a custom page, go to xref:page-and-form-development-overview.adoc[page and form development overview].

== Use in applications

Once the pages are all made available in the Resources section of Bonita Portal, they can be used to xref:applicationCreation.adoc[create applications]. +
We highly recommend that the creation of applications is done in Bonita Studio, to be managed with all the other resources of the project in the Version Control System (Git).

== Live update

xref:live-update.adoc[Live update] allows the Administrator to update one element of the application in a situation of emergency.

=== Edit a page

You can link:resource-management.md#modify[edit the content of a page] by installing a new version of a page.

=== Modify the pages in an application

You can modify the pages in an application by link:applications.md#specify-pages[mapping other pages] in the application descriptor, and/or link:applications.md#define-navigation[creating, moving, or deleting menus or menu options].
