modules/ROOT/pages/process-configuration-overview.adoc, before:

= Different process configuration scenarios

The Bonita Studio provides dedicated tooling to configure the different artefacts that are part of a process.

There are two reasons for configuring a process:

* Configuring a process for testing
* Configuring a process before deployment

Before you can run a process from Bonita Studio for testing, you must configure it. The configuration is partly set implicitly by the Deployment and Web
preferences set as xref:bonita-bpm-studio-preferences.adoc[Bonita Studio preferences] and is partly set explicitly by
xref:configuring-a-process.adoc[configuring the process using the configuration wizard].

Before you export a process for deployment, you need to set the initial configuration xref:configuring-a-process.adoc[using the configuration wizard].
This configuration is exported with the process if you check the Configuration option in the export dialog when you
xref:import-and-export-a-process.adoc[build a .bar archive].
If you are using the Enterprise or the Performance edition, you can xref:processes.adoc[update the configuration after deployment].
For other editions, you can modify the actor mapping only.

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/process-configuration-overview.adoc, after:

= Different process configuration scenarios
:description: The Bonita Studio provides dedicated tooling to configure the different artefacts that are part of a process.

The Bonita Studio provides dedicated tooling to configure the different artefacts that are part of a process.

There are two reasons for configuring a process:

* Configuring a process for testing
* Configuring a process before deployment

Before you can run a process from Bonita Studio for testing, you must configure it. The configuration is partly set implicitly by the Deployment and Web
preferences set as xref:bonita-bpm-studio-preferences.adoc[Bonita Studio preferences] and is partly set explicitly by
xref:configuring-a-process.adoc[configuring the process using the configuration wizard].

Before you export a process for deployment, you need to set the initial configuration xref:configuring-a-process.adoc[using the configuration wizard].
This configuration is exported with the process if you check the Configuration option in the export dialog when you
xref:import-and-export-a-process.adoc[build a .bar archive].
If you are using the Enterprise or the Performance edition, you can xref:processes.adoc[update the configuration after deployment].
For other editions, you can modify the actor mapping only.
