modules/ROOT/pages/profiles-overview.adoc, before:

= Profiles overview

A profile is an indirection to some entities of the organization: users, groups, roles, and/or memberships.
Profiles work as permissions to give access to:

* xref:applications.adoc[Living Applications]
* Defined objects and attributes of the BDM (through xref:access-control-api.adoc[BDM Access Control])
* Navigation (menus) of Bonita Portal

One organization entity can be mapped to several profiles. In Bonita Portal, a loggued user can switch between his/her profiles in the navigation bar.

In development, to map entities of the organization to a profile, use the xref:profileCreation.adoc[profile editor] in Bonita Studio. +
In production, an administrator must use the *Organization*>**Profiles** menu of Bonita Portal.

== Default profiles

Bonita comes with 3 default profiles: *User* and *Administrator* are available in all editions ; *Process Manager* is available in Subscription editions only.

=== User profile

An employee mapped to the *User* profile can perform everyday tasks: start cases, perform tasks, add comments to a task.

A manager can also see the *More details* page for their team members' tasks, by specifying the task id. To do so, display any task in the Portal, then change the task id in the URL to the id of the task you want to see.
You can see only the *More details* view for the task, unlike in Bonita 6.x where you could also see the task form by using the task id.
The manager needs only the user profile for this, not a special profile.

*User* is the profile used in Bonita Mobile Portal. As a consequence, an employee who does not have the *User* profile cannot access the mobile portal.

=== Administrator profile

An employee mapped to the *Administrator* profile has administration rights, including importing and exporting processes, monitoring, creating reports, live updating processes or resources, creating and modifying users, creating custom profiles, changing user memberships, creating applications, and so on.

=== Process manager profile

This profile is available for Subscription editions only.
An employee mapped to the *Process manager* profile has limited administration rights for activities related to the processes they manage, as defined by the Administrator.

NOTE: In Bonita ACME organization, all users have the role *Member*, and the role *Member* is mapped to all default profiles. This simplifies process testing (log in as any user to see any Portal content).

== Custom profiles

In addition to the default profiles, users of Enterprise, Performance and Efficiency editions can create custom profiles. +
Custom profiles must be created and updated in the xref:profileCreation.adoc[profile editor] of Bonita studio.
To make a custom profile accessible to users, it has to be mapped to entities of the organization. +
If a custom profile is created to give access to custom content in the portal, its _Portal menu_ (navigation structure and pages) must also be defined in the profile.
In a production environment, to recover from an issue or in rare situations, an Administrator can use the _Organization_>__Profiles__ actions.

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/profiles-overview.adoc, after:

= Profiles overview
:description: A profile is an indirection to some entities of the organization: users, groups, roles, and/or memberships.

A profile is an indirection to some entities of the organization: users, groups, roles, and/or memberships.
Profiles work as permissions to give access to:

* xref:applications.adoc[Living Applications]
* Defined objects and attributes of the BDM (through xref:access-control-api.adoc[BDM Access Control])
* Navigation (menus) of Bonita Portal

One organization entity can be mapped to several profiles. In Bonita Portal, a loggued user can switch between his/her profiles in the navigation bar.

In development, to map entities of the organization to a profile, use the xref:profileCreation.adoc[profile editor] in Bonita Studio. +
In production, an administrator must use the *Organization*>**Profiles** menu of Bonita Portal.

== Default profiles

Bonita comes with 3 default profiles: *User* and *Administrator* are available in all editions ; *Process Manager* is available in Subscription editions only.

=== User profile

An employee mapped to the *User* profile can perform everyday tasks: start cases, perform tasks, add comments to a task.

A manager can also see the *More details* page for their team members' tasks, by specifying the task id. To do so, display any task in the Portal, then change the task id in the URL to the id of the task you want to see.
You can see only the *More details* view for the task, unlike in Bonita 6.x where you could also see the task form by using the task id.
The manager needs only the user profile for this, not a special profile.

*User* is the profile used in Bonita Mobile Portal. As a consequence, an employee who does not have the *User* profile cannot access the mobile portal.

=== Administrator profile

An employee mapped to the *Administrator* profile has administration rights, including importing and exporting processes, monitoring, creating reports, live updating processes or resources, creating and modifying users, creating custom profiles, changing user memberships, creating applications, and so on.

=== Process manager profile

This profile is available for Subscription editions only.
An employee mapped to the *Process manager* profile has limited administration rights for activities related to the processes they manage, as defined by the Administrator.

NOTE: In Bonita ACME organization, all users have the role *Member*, and the role *Member* is mapped to all default profiles. This simplifies process testing (log in as any user to see any Portal content).

== Custom profiles

In addition to the default profiles, users of Enterprise, Performance and Efficiency editions can create custom profiles. +
Custom profiles must be created and updated in the xref:profileCreation.adoc[profile editor] of Bonita studio.
To make a custom profile accessible to users, it has to be mapped to entities of the organization. +
If a custom profile is created to give access to custom content in the portal, its _Portal menu_ (navigation structure and pages) must also be defined in the profile.
In a production environment, to recover from an issue or in rare situations, an Administrator can use the _Organization_>__Profiles__ actions.
