modules/ROOT/pages/purge-tool.adoc, before:

= Purge Tool

Bonita Purge Tool provides the capability to purge finished (archived) process instances from Bonita Runtime environment.

By default, all archives are preserved forever in Bonita runtime, but if your functional context allows you to remove old unused process instances
(for example, if you only need to keep a history of last 6 months), use this tool to clean up your Bonita database.

NOTE:
*Note:* For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only. +
This tool is not available publicly. Use https://customer.bonitasoft.com/download/request[Bonita Customer Portal] to download it.


== Pre-requisites

This tool can be run on a Bonita runtime environment in a version greater than or equal to 7.7.0. +
Bonita runtime environment should be shut down when running this tool, i.e. Bonita server should be stopped.

== Configuration

Once https://customer.bonitasoft.com/download/request[downloaded Bonita Purge Tool], unzip it somewhere and go into the main directory. +
Enter your database configuration properties in the file `application.properties`

== Run Bonita Purge Tool

This command will delete all archived process instances belonging to the process identified by *PROCESS_DEFINITION_ID*,
that are finished since at least *OLDEST_DATE_TIMESTAMP*.

example (Unix):

[source,shell]
----
# If no PROCESS_DEFINITION_ID parameter is given, the program lists all existing process definitions and stops:
bin/bonita-purge-tool

bin/bonita-purge-tool <PROCESS_DEFINITION_ID> <OLDEST_DATE_TIMESTAMP> [<TENANT_ID>]
----

example (Windows):

[source,shell]
----
# If no PROCESS_DEFINITION_ID parameter is given, the program lists all existing process definitions and stops:
bin/bonita-purge-tool.bat

bin/bonita-purge-tool.bat <PROCESS_DEFINITION_ID> <OLDEST_DATE_TIMESTAMP> [<TENANT_ID>]`
----

An optional *TENANT_ID* parameter can be given if the platform uses multiple tenants to specify on which tenant should the process instances be deleted.
If multi-tenancy is used and if the TENANT_ID is not set, an error is issued, and the program stops.

*OLDEST_DATE_TIMESTAMP* must be a Timestamp (in milliseconds) from which all process instances that finished before that date will be deleted. +
Unfinished process instances and process instances that finished after that date will not be affected. +
Its format is a standard Java timestamp since https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/time/Instant.html#EPOCH[EPOCH] (in milliseconds).
You can use websites such as https://www.epochconverter.com/[Epoch Converter] to format such a timestamp.

== Deletion strategy

You need to have in mind 2 precepts to understand how this tool works:

1) This tool will first delete all archived process instances (`arch_process_instance` rows) that are concerned by this purge.
   Then the tables containing associated elements will be scanned to remove all existing orphans.

2) All archived and running process instances (cases) will have at least one row in arch_process_instance table.
   This is due to the first initializing state (stateId = 0) of the process instance that is archived as soon as it is created.

Thanks to these facts, to identify the orphans we only need to query the arch_process_instance, which is more performant than querying
both `process_instance` and `arch_process_instance` tables while we avoid removing data from running cases.
For example, once all `arch_process_instance` rows matching the conditions (processDefinitionId and timestamp) have been deleted
and when the tool deletes the `arch_data_instance` rows, the tool only needs to query the `arch_process_instance` table.

 DELETE FROM ARCH_DATA_INSTANCE a WHERE
 a.CONTAINERTYPE = 'PROCESS_INSTANCE'
 AND a.tenantId = 1
 AND NOT EXISTS (
     SELECT id FROM ARCH_PROCESS_INSTANCE b
     WHERE a.CONTAINERID = b.SOURCEOBJECTID
     AND b.tenantId = 1);

This strategy allows this tool to be more robust, it can be stopped at any given time, relaunching it will continue the deletion from where it stopped.
However, this means that the time required to execute a purge will be the same when deleting a few elements or a lot of elements.

== Database deletion volume testing reference

This xref:purge-tool-deletion-volume-testing.adoc[reference page] provides the tests run on all supported databases.

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/purge-tool.adoc, after:

= Purge Tool
:description: Bonita Purge Tool provides the capability to purge finished (archived) process instances from Bonita Runtime environment.

Bonita Purge Tool provides the capability to purge finished (archived) process instances from Bonita Runtime environment.

By default, all archives are preserved forever in Bonita runtime, but if your functional context allows you to remove old unused process instances
(for example, if you only need to keep a history of last 6 months), use this tool to clean up your Bonita database.

[NOTE]
====

For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only. +
This tool is not available publicly. Use https://customer.bonitasoft.com/download/request[Bonita Customer Portal] to download it.
====

== Pre-requisites

This tool can be run on a Bonita runtime environment in a version greater than or equal to 7.7.0. +
Bonita runtime environment should be shut down when running this tool, i.e. Bonita server should be stopped.

== Configuration

Once https://customer.bonitasoft.com/download/request[downloaded Bonita Purge Tool], unzip it somewhere and go into the main directory. +
Enter your database configuration properties in the file `application.properties`

== Run Bonita Purge Tool

This command will delete all archived process instances belonging to the process identified by *PROCESS_DEFINITION_ID*,
that are finished since at least *OLDEST_DATE_TIMESTAMP*.

example (Unix):

[source,shell]
----
# If no PROCESS_DEFINITION_ID parameter is given, the program lists all existing process definitions and stops:
bin/bonita-purge-tool

bin/bonita-purge-tool <PROCESS_DEFINITION_ID> <OLDEST_DATE_TIMESTAMP> [<TENANT_ID>]
----

example (Windows):

[source,shell]
----
# If no PROCESS_DEFINITION_ID parameter is given, the program lists all existing process definitions and stops:
bin/bonita-purge-tool.bat

bin/bonita-purge-tool.bat <PROCESS_DEFINITION_ID> <OLDEST_DATE_TIMESTAMP> [<TENANT_ID>]`
----

An optional *TENANT_ID* parameter can be given if the platform uses multiple tenants to specify on which tenant should the process instances be deleted.
If multi-tenancy is used and if the TENANT_ID is not set, an error is issued, and the program stops.

*OLDEST_DATE_TIMESTAMP* must be a Timestamp (in milliseconds) from which all process instances that finished before that date will be deleted. +
Unfinished process instances and process instances that finished after that date will not be affected. +
Its format is a standard Java timestamp since https://docs.oracle.com/en/java/javase/11/docs/api/java.base/java/time/Instant.html#EPOCH[EPOCH] (in milliseconds).
You can use websites such as https://www.epochconverter.com/[Epoch Converter] to format such a timestamp.

== Deletion strategy

You need to have in mind 2 precepts to understand how this tool works:

1) This tool will first delete all archived process instances (`arch_process_instance` rows) that are concerned by this purge.
   Then the tables containing associated elements will be scanned to remove all existing orphans.

2) All archived and running process instances (cases) will have at least one row in arch_process_instance table.
   This is due to the first initializing state (stateId = 0) of the process instance that is archived as soon as it is created.

Thanks to these facts, to identify the orphans we only need to query the arch_process_instance, which is more performant than querying
both `process_instance` and `arch_process_instance` tables while we avoid removing data from running cases.
For example, once all `arch_process_instance` rows matching the conditions (processDefinitionId and timestamp) have been deleted
and when the tool deletes the `arch_data_instance` rows, the tool only needs to query the `arch_process_instance` table.

 DELETE FROM ARCH_DATA_INSTANCE a WHERE
 a.CONTAINERTYPE = 'PROCESS_INSTANCE'
 AND a.tenantId = 1
 AND NOT EXISTS (
     SELECT id FROM ARCH_PROCESS_INSTANCE b
     WHERE a.CONTAINERID = b.SOURCEOBJECTID
     AND b.tenantId = 1);

This strategy allows this tool to be more robust, it can be stopped at any given time, relaunching it will continue the deletion from where it stopped.
However, this means that the time required to execute a purge will be the same when deleting a few elements or a lot of elements.

== Database deletion volume testing reference

This xref:purge-tool-deletion-volume-testing.adoc[reference page] provides the tests run on all supported databases.
