modules/ROOT/pages/queriable-logging.adoc, before:

= Bonita Engine Queriable logger

Queriable logger provides information about important events that happened in the Bonita Platform.

NOTE:
*Note:* For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only.


== Purpose

The queriable logger service provides information about important events in the Bonita Platform that are not directly related to execution of a process. The log includes information about administration operations such as deployment of a new process definition, commands, reporting, actor mapping, Portal Look & Feel themes, and organization and user management.

The Bonita Engine stores information in the queriable log. The information in the log is accessible using the http://documentation.bonitasoft.com/javadoc/api/${varVersion}/index.html[LogAPI]
(Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only).

The information available from the queriable log is primarily for the platform and process administrator. It is not intended to be used as a notification system: avoid pooling on the queriable log. If you need to be notified of specific events, use the configurable event service.

== Usage

Here is an example of how to search for log message about a specific activity:

[source,groovy]
----
final SearchOptionsBuilder builder = new SearchOptionsBuilder(0, 100);
builder.filter(LogSearchDescriptor.ACTION_SCOPE, aTaskId);
builder.searchTerm("Adding a new user");
builder.sort(LogSearchDescriptor.ACTION_TYPE, Order.ASC);
final LogAPI logAPI = TenantAPIAccessor.getLogAPI(session);
final SearchResult<Log> searchedLogs = logAPI.searchLogs(builder.done());
for (Log log : searchedLogs.getResult()) {
     // Print the detailed user creation message:
    System.out.println(log.getMessage());
}
----

== Implementation details

The queriable logger service stores log message in the Bonita Engine back-end database using the Hibernate library. The https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/master/services/bonita-log/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/services/QueriableLoggerService.java[interface] and the https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/tree/master/services/bonita-log/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/services/impl[implementation] of the service are available from the source code repository on https://github.com/bonitasoft/[GitHub].

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/queriable-logging.adoc, after:

= Bonita Engine Queriable logger
:description: Queriable logger provides information about important events that happened in the Bonita Platform.

Queriable logger provides information about important events that happened in the Bonita Platform.

[NOTE]
====

For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only.
====

== Purpose

The queriable logger service provides information about important events in the Bonita Platform that are not directly related to execution of a process. The log includes information about administration operations such as deployment of a new process definition, commands, reporting, actor mapping, Portal Look & Feel themes, and organization and user management.

The Bonita Engine stores information in the queriable log. The information in the log is accessible using the http://documentation.bonitasoft.com/javadoc/api/${varVersion}/index.html[LogAPI]
(Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only).

The information available from the queriable log is primarily for the platform and process administrator. It is not intended to be used as a notification system: avoid pooling on the queriable log. If you need to be notified of specific events, use the configurable event service.

== Usage

Here is an example of how to search for log message about a specific activity:

[source,groovy]
----
final SearchOptionsBuilder builder = new SearchOptionsBuilder(0, 100);
builder.filter(LogSearchDescriptor.ACTION_SCOPE, aTaskId);
builder.searchTerm("Adding a new user");
builder.sort(LogSearchDescriptor.ACTION_TYPE, Order.ASC);
final LogAPI logAPI = TenantAPIAccessor.getLogAPI(session);
final SearchResult<Log> searchedLogs = logAPI.searchLogs(builder.done());
for (Log log : searchedLogs.getResult()) {
     // Print the detailed user creation message:
    System.out.println(log.getMessage());
}
----

== Implementation details

The queriable logger service stores log message in the Bonita Engine back-end database using the Hibernate library. The https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/master/services/bonita-log/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/services/QueriableLoggerService.java[interface] and the https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/tree/master/services/bonita-log/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/services/impl[implementation] of the service are available from the source code repository on https://github.com/bonitasoft/[GitHub].
