modules/ROOT/pages/reporting-overview.adoc, before:

= Reporting overview

Learn how reporting can be made on application of the Bonita Plaform.

NOTE:
*Note:* For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only.


== Terminology

Reporting is the act of collecting and aggregating Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to present them in reports. +
KPIs are defined as a set of measures that are used to assess the operational success of a business process.

Reporting is also know as Business Intelligence (BI) or Business Activity Monitoring (BAM).

== Reporting dependencies

Reporting involves Bonita and two other third-party software components:

* A reporting database of your choice.
* A BI tool of your choice.

== Reporting main steps

Reporting is composed in several ordered steps.

At design time:

. xref:set-up-a-reporting-database.adoc[Reporting database setup]
. xref:set-up-kpis.adoc[KPI definition in Bonita Studio]
. xref:create-a-report.adoc[Report creation in the BI tool]

At execution time:

. KPI collection in Bonita Engine and storage in the reporting database (this is performed automatically based on KPI definitions)
. Report generation using the BI tool or Bonita Portal

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/reporting-overview.adoc, after:

= Reporting overview
:description: Learn how reporting can be made on application of the Bonita Plaform.

Learn how reporting can be made on application of the Bonita Plaform.

[NOTE]
====

For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only.
====

== Terminology

Reporting is the act of collecting and aggregating Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) to present them in reports. +
KPIs are defined as a set of measures that are used to assess the operational success of a business process.

Reporting is also know as Business Intelligence (BI) or Business Activity Monitoring (BAM).

== Reporting dependencies

Reporting involves Bonita and two other third-party software components:

* A reporting database of your choice.
* A BI tool of your choice.

== Reporting main steps

Reporting is composed in several ordered steps.

At design time:

. xref:set-up-a-reporting-database.adoc[Reporting database setup]
. xref:set-up-kpis.adoc[KPI definition in Bonita Studio]
. xref:create-a-report.adoc[Report creation in the BI tool]

At execution time:

. KPI collection in Bonita Engine and storage in the reporting database (this is performed automatically based on KPI definitions)
. Report generation using the BI tool or Bonita Portal
