modules/ROOT/pages/role.adoc, before:

= Administrator Role list in Bonita Portal

This page explains what a user with the _Administrator_ profile in Bonita Portal can see and do about roles in the organization. +
Roles can be defined in the organization, attached to users and used to map actors.

Here is a view of this page:
image:images/UI2021.1/roles-portal.png[Administrator roles Portal]
// {.img-responsive}

== Create a role

. Go to _Organization_/_Roles_
. Click on the _Create a role_ button in the top left corner
. In the pop-up window, enter the avatar (picture) to represent the role (optional)
. Enter the name, the display name, and a description of the role
. Click on _Create_
The new role will be displayed in the list of roles

== Assign a role to a user

. Go to _Organization_/_Users_
. Click on a user
. Click on _More_
. In "Memberships", click on _Add_
. Choose the group and role for the user
. Click on _Add_

== Edit a role

. Go to _Organization_/_Roles_
. Click a checkbox to select a role
. Click _Edit_
. In the popup window, update the role information
. Click _Save_

== Delete a role

. Go to _Organization_/_Roles_.
. Click a checkbox to select a role.
. Click _Delete_.
. In the popup window, click _Delete_.

== More information about a role

. Go to _Organization_/_Roles_.
. Click a checkbox to select a role. A list of users who have this role is displayed.

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/role.adoc, after:

= Administrator Role list in Bonita Portal
:description: This page explains what a user with the _Administrator_ profile in Bonita Portal can see and do about roles in the organization. +

This page explains what a user with the _Administrator_ profile in Bonita Portal can see and do about roles in the organization. +
Roles can be defined in the organization, attached to users and used to map actors.

Here is a view of this page:
image:images/UI2021.1/roles-portal.png[Administrator roles Portal]
// {.img-responsive}

== Create a role

. Go to _Organization_/_Roles_
. Click on the _Create a role_ button in the top left corner
. In the pop-up window, enter the avatar (picture) to represent the role (optional)
. Enter the name, the display name, and a description of the role
. Click on _Create_
The new role will be displayed in the list of roles

== Assign a role to a user

. Go to _Organization_/_Users_
. Click on a user
. Click on _More_
. In "Memberships", click on _Add_
. Choose the group and role for the user
. Click on _Add_

== Edit a role

. Go to _Organization_/_Roles_
. Click a checkbox to select a role
. Click _Edit_
. In the popup window, update the role information
. Click _Save_

== Delete a role

. Go to _Organization_/_Roles_.
. Click a checkbox to select a role.
. Click _Delete_.
. In the popup window, click _Delete_.

== More information about a role

. Go to _Organization_/_Roles_.
. Click a checkbox to select a role. A list of users who have this role is displayed.
