modules/ROOT/pages/runtime-monitoring.adoc, before:

= Bonita Runtime Monitoring

Discover how to monitor a runtime environment running Bonita

In Community edition, monitoring metrics can be published via 2 channels: JMX and / or Logging file. +
In Subscription editions, monitoring metrics can be published via 3 channels: JMX and / or Logging file and / or
a Prometheus endpoint.

== Why monitoring ?

Monitoring a Production environment is crucial to ensure the runtime is correctly sized and tuned.

Bonita provides a series of technical and Bonita-related metrics to monitor the health of Bonita runtime environment. +
Some metrics are enabled by default and cannot be disabled. Some others are optional and can be enabled according to
your needs.

== Glossary

*Work*: a unit piece of code that executes parts of process instances, tasks, BPM elements... and allows the processes to execute forwards.
It executes in a Java thread.

*Connector work*: a unit piece of code that specifically executes Bonita connectors.

*Work queue*: a queue storing pending works before they are taken by threads for execution.

*Metric*: an indicator (generally a numeric value) giving information on the system. They can be technical (number
of running threads on the JVM), or more Bonita-oriented (total number of connectors executed).

*Metric Publisher*: a publisher is responsible for exposing the activated metrics. It is a channel on which metrics are published.
Provided metric publishers are JMX (all editions), Log files (all editions), Prometheus (Subscription editions only).

== Which metrics are available?

=== Bonita-related metrics

Bonita-related metrics are *enabled by default* and cannot be disabled. Here are the provided metrics:

* The number of currently running works, under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.work.running*
* The number of currently pending works, waiting in the work queue to be treated, under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.work.pending*
* The total number of executed works (since the last start of Bonita runtime), under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.work.executed*
* The number of currently running connector works, under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.connector.running*
* The number of currently pending connector works, waiting in the connector work queue to be treated,
under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.connector.pending*
* The total number of executed connector works (since the last start of Bonita runtime), under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.connector.executed*
* The total number of BPMN message couples executed (since the last start of Bonita runtime), under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.message.executed*
* The total number of BPMN message couples potentially matched (since the last start of Bonita runtime), under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.message.potential* (starting from 7.10.3)
* The total number of BPMN message matching tasks retriggered (since the last start of Bonita runtime), under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.message.retriggered_tasks* (starting from 7.10.3)

=== Technical metrics

The following available metrics are *disabled by default* and can be enabled.

* Several metrics related to JVM memory, under the logical key names *jvm.memory.** and *jvm.buffer.**
* Several metrics related to JVM threads, under the logical key name *jvm.threads.**
* Several metrics related to JVM garbage collection, under the logical key name *jvm.gc.**
* Several metrics related to Worker / Connector thread pools, under the logical key name *executor.**
* Several metrics related to Hibernate statistics, under the logical key name *hibernate.**
* Several metrics related to Tomcat, under the logical key name *tomcat.**

== Activating specific monitoring metrics

Retrieve link:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.md#update_platform_conf[current configuration] by running:

[source,bash]
----
./setup/setup.sh pull
----

=== Activating Metrics Publishers

Edit file `./setup/platform_conf/current/platform_engine/bonita-platform-community-custom.properties` +
You will see, in the `# MONITORING` section, a series of properties with their default value:

 ## MONITORING
 ## PUBLISHERS = where to publish?
 ## publish metrics to JMX:
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.publisher.jmx.enable=true
 ## periodically print metrics to logs (bonita-related metrics only):
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.publisher.logging.enable=false
 ## print to logs every minute by default (in the ISO-8601 duration format):
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.publisher.logging.step=PT1M

These are the *metric publishers* that can be activated. +
In Community edition, 2 metric publishers are provided:

* JMX (enabled by default), that allows to use any JMX console to monitor your favorite metrics (except JVM metrics,
as they are already published by the JVM itself by default)
* Logging (disabled by default), that regularly prints to standard Bonita log file the Bonita-related metrics. Print interval can
be changed (property `org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.logging.step`).

NOTE:
To change any value, *uncomment the line by removing the # character*, and change the true / false value. +
Then link:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.md#update_platform_conf[push your configuration changes] to database:

[source,bash]
----
./setup/setup.sh push
----

Then restart the Tomcat server for the changes to take effect.


=== Activating specific metric indicators

Edit the same file `./setup/platform_conf/current/platform_engine/bonita-platform-community-custom.properties`

 ## METRICS = what to publish?
 ##
 ## Note: Bonita-related metrics are automatically published.
 ## They are active by default and cannot be disabled.
 ##
 ## publish technical metrics related to Worker / Connector thread pools:
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.executors.enable=false
 ## publish technical metrics related to HIBERNATE statistics
 ## To activate, simply set property (a few lines above) 'bonita.platform.persistence.generate_statistics=true'

These are the *metrics* (counters) that can be exposed. +
All configurable metrics are disabled by default and can be enabled separately. +
They provide information about:

* Worker / Connector thread pools
* Hibernate statistics

Each of these metrics provides many different counters to finely understand what is going on.

NOTE:
To change any value, *uncomment the line by removing the # character*, and change the true / false value. +
Then link:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.md#update_platform_conf[push your configuration changes] to database:

[source,bash]
----
./setup/setup.sh push
----

Then restart the Tomcat server for the changes to take effect.



== Subscription-only monitoring

=== Additional metrics

Thanks to additional publisher, additional metrics can be published

These metrics provide information about:

* the running JVM memory
* JVM threads
* Garbage collection usage
* Tomcat counters on sessions, threads, requests, connections...

They can be activated by editing file `./setup/platform_conf/current/platform_engine/bonita-platform-sp-custom.properties`

 ## METRICS = what to publish?
 ##
 ## publish metrics related to JVM memory:
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.jvm.memory.enable=false
 ## publish metrics related to JVM Threads:
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.jvm.threads.enable=false
 ## publish metrics related to JVM garbage collection:
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.jvm.gc.enable=false
 ## publish technical metrics related to Tomcat (if in a Tomcat context):
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.tomcat.enable=false

=== Prometheus publisher

NOTE:
*Note:* For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only.


Prometheus

In addition to these metric publishers, Bonita Subscription editions can also publish to a REST endpoint in the
https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#text-format-example[Prometheus format], that can
easily be consumed by Prometheus and then displayed by graphical tools like Grafana, etc.

To activate Prometheus endpoint in Bonita, simply edit file `./setup/platform_conf/current/platform_engine/bonita-platform-sp-custom.properties`
and change:

 # publish metrics to Prometheus
 # com.bonitasoft.engine.plugin.monitoring.publisher.prometheus.enable=false

to

 # publish metrics to Prometheus
 com.bonitasoft.engine.plugin.monitoring.publisher.prometheus.enable=true

Then link:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.md#update_platform_conf[push your configuration changes] to database:

[source,bash]
----
./setup/setup.sh push
----

Then restart the Tomcat server for the changes to take effect.

This exposes all activated metrics (see <<activating-specific-metric-indicators,above>>) at endpoint:

 http://<SERVER_URL>/bonita/metrics

Use this URL to configure your installed Prometheus configuration in order to record and display the metrics.

Sample extract of exposed Prometheus data:

 # HELP jvm_buffer_memory_used_bytes An estimate of the memory that the Java virtual machine is using for this buffer pool
 # TYPE jvm_buffer_memory_used_bytes gauge
 jvm_buffer_memory_used_bytes{id="direct",} 565248.0
 jvm_buffer_memory_used_bytes{id="mapped",} 0.0
 # HELP bonita_bpmengine_connector_pending
 # TYPE bonita_bpmengine_connector_pending gauge
 bonita_bpmengine_connector_pending{tenant="1",} 0.0
 # HELP bonita_bpmengine_connector_executed_total
 # TYPE bonita_bpmengine_connector_executed_total counter
 bonita_bpmengine_connector_executed_total{tenant="1",} 0.0
 # HELP bonita_bpmengine_work_running
 # TYPE bonita_bpmengine_work_running gauge
 bonita_bpmengine_work_running{tenant="1",} 0.0
 # HELP jvm_gc_max_data_size_bytes Max size of old generation memory pool
 # TYPE jvm_gc_max_data_size_bytes gauge
 jvm_gc_max_data_size_bytes 7.16177408E8
 # HELP bonita_bpmengine_work_pending
 # TYPE bonita_bpmengine_work_pending gauge
 bonita_bpmengine_work_pending{tenant="1",} 0.0
 # HELP tomcat_servlet_request_max_seconds
 # TYPE tomcat_servlet_request_max_seconds gauge
 tomcat_servlet_request_max_seconds{name="default",} 0.0
 tomcat_servlet_request_max_seconds{name="dispatcherServlet",} 0.104
 # HELP tomcat_threads_config_max_threads
 # TYPE tomcat_threads_config_max_threads gauge
 tomcat_threads_config_max_threads{name="http-nio-8080",} 200.0
 # HELP tomcat_sessions_expired_sessions_total
 # TYPE tomcat_sessions_expired_sessions_total counter
 tomcat_sessions_expired_sessions_total 0.0
 # HELP tomcat_sessions_active_max_sessions
 # TYPE tomcat_sessions_active_max_sessions gauge
 tomcat_sessions_active_max_sessions 0.0
 ...

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/runtime-monitoring.adoc, after:

= Bonita Runtime Monitoring
:description: Discover how to monitor a runtime environment running Bonita

Discover how to monitor a runtime environment running Bonita

In Community edition, monitoring metrics can be published via 2 channels: JMX and / or Logging file. +
In Subscription editions, monitoring metrics can be published via 3 channels: JMX and / or Logging file and / or
a Prometheus endpoint.

== Why monitoring ?

Monitoring a Production environment is crucial to ensure the runtime is correctly sized and tuned.

Bonita provides a series of technical and Bonita-related metrics to monitor the health of Bonita runtime environment. +
Some metrics are enabled by default and cannot be disabled. Some others are optional and can be enabled according to
your needs.

== Glossary

*Work*: a unit piece of code that executes parts of process instances, tasks, BPM elements... and allows the processes to execute forwards.
It executes in a Java thread.

*Connector work*: a unit piece of code that specifically executes Bonita connectors.

*Work queue*: a queue storing pending works before they are taken by threads for execution.

*Metric*: an indicator (generally a numeric value) giving information on the system. They can be technical (number
of running threads on the JVM), or more Bonita-oriented (total number of connectors executed).

*Metric Publisher*: a publisher is responsible for exposing the activated metrics. It is a channel on which metrics are published.
Provided metric publishers are JMX (all editions), Log files (all editions), Prometheus (Subscription editions only).

== Which metrics are available?

=== Bonita-related metrics

Bonita-related metrics are *enabled by default* and cannot be disabled. Here are the provided metrics:

* The number of currently running works, under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.work.running*
* The number of currently pending works, waiting in the work queue to be treated, under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.work.pending*
* The total number of executed works (since the last start of Bonita runtime), under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.work.executed*
* The number of currently running connector works, under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.connector.running*
* The number of currently pending connector works, waiting in the connector work queue to be treated,
under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.connector.pending*
* The total number of executed connector works (since the last start of Bonita runtime), under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.connector.executed*
* The total number of BPMN message couples executed (since the last start of Bonita runtime), under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.message.executed*
* The total number of BPMN message couples potentially matched (since the last start of Bonita runtime), under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.message.potential* (starting from 7.10.3)
* The total number of BPMN message matching tasks retriggered (since the last start of Bonita runtime), under the logical key name *bonita.bpmengine.message.retriggered_tasks* (starting from 7.10.3)

=== Technical metrics

The following available metrics are *disabled by default* and can be enabled.

* Several metrics related to JVM memory, under the logical key names *jvm.memory.** and *jvm.buffer.**
* Several metrics related to JVM threads, under the logical key name *jvm.threads.**
* Several metrics related to JVM garbage collection, under the logical key name *jvm.gc.**
* Several metrics related to Worker / Connector thread pools, under the logical key name *executor.**
* Several metrics related to Hibernate statistics, under the logical key name *hibernate.**
* Several metrics related to Tomcat, under the logical key name *tomcat.**

== Activating specific monitoring metrics

Retrieve link:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.md#update_platform_conf[current configuration] by running:

[source,bash]
----
./setup/setup.sh pull
----

=== Activating Metrics Publishers

Edit file `./setup/platform_conf/current/platform_engine/bonita-platform-community-custom.properties` +
You will see, in the `# MONITORING` section, a series of properties with their default value:

 ## MONITORING
 ## PUBLISHERS = where to publish?
 ## publish metrics to JMX:
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.publisher.jmx.enable=true
 ## periodically print metrics to logs (bonita-related metrics only):
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.publisher.logging.enable=false
 ## print to logs every minute by default (in the ISO-8601 duration format):
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.publisher.logging.step=PT1M

These are the *metric publishers* that can be activated. +
In Community edition, 2 metric publishers are provided:

* JMX (enabled by default), that allows to use any JMX console to monitor your favorite metrics (except JVM metrics,
as they are already published by the JVM itself by default)
* Logging (disabled by default), that regularly prints to standard Bonita log file the Bonita-related metrics. Print interval can
be changed (property `org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.logging.step`).

[NOTE]
====

To change any value, *uncomment the line by removing the # character*, and change the true / false value. +
Then link:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.md#update_platform_conf[push your configuration changes] to database:

[source,bash]
----
./setup/setup.sh push
----

Then restart the Tomcat server for the changes to take effect.
====

=== Activating specific metric indicators

Edit the same file `./setup/platform_conf/current/platform_engine/bonita-platform-community-custom.properties`

 ## METRICS = what to publish?
 ##
 ## Note: Bonita-related metrics are automatically published.
 ## They are active by default and cannot be disabled.
 ##
 ## publish technical metrics related to Worker / Connector thread pools:
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.executors.enable=false
 ## publish technical metrics related to HIBERNATE statistics
 ## To activate, simply set property (a few lines above) 'bonita.platform.persistence.generate_statistics=true'

These are the *metrics* (counters) that can be exposed. +
All configurable metrics are disabled by default and can be enabled separately. +
They provide information about:

* Worker / Connector thread pools
* Hibernate statistics

Each of these metrics provides many different counters to finely understand what is going on.

[NOTE]
====

To change any value, *uncomment the line by removing the # character*, and change the true / false value. +
Then link:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.md#update_platform_conf[push your configuration changes] to database:

[source,bash]
----
./setup/setup.sh push
----

Then restart the Tomcat server for the changes to take effect.

====

== Subscription-only monitoring

=== Additional metrics

Thanks to additional publisher, additional metrics can be published

These metrics provide information about:

* the running JVM memory
* JVM threads
* Garbage collection usage
* Tomcat counters on sessions, threads, requests, connections...

They can be activated by editing file `./setup/platform_conf/current/platform_engine/bonita-platform-sp-custom.properties`

 ## METRICS = what to publish?
 ##
 ## publish metrics related to JVM memory:
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.jvm.memory.enable=false
 ## publish metrics related to JVM Threads:
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.jvm.threads.enable=false
 ## publish metrics related to JVM garbage collection:
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.jvm.gc.enable=false
 ## publish technical metrics related to Tomcat (if in a Tomcat context):
 #org.bonitasoft.engine.monitoring.metrics.tomcat.enable=false

=== Prometheus publisher

[NOTE]
====

For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only.
====

Prometheus

In addition to these metric publishers, Bonita Subscription editions can also publish to a REST endpoint in the
https://prometheus.io/docs/instrumenting/exposition_formats/#text-format-example[Prometheus format], that can
easily be consumed by Prometheus and then displayed by graphical tools like Grafana, etc.

To activate Prometheus endpoint in Bonita, simply edit file `./setup/platform_conf/current/platform_engine/bonita-platform-sp-custom.properties`
and change:

 # publish metrics to Prometheus
 # com.bonitasoft.engine.plugin.monitoring.publisher.prometheus.enable=false

to

 # publish metrics to Prometheus
 com.bonitasoft.engine.plugin.monitoring.publisher.prometheus.enable=true

Then link:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.md#update_platform_conf[push your configuration changes] to database:

[source,bash]
----
./setup/setup.sh push
----

Then restart the Tomcat server for the changes to take effect.

This exposes all activated metrics (see <<activating-specific-metric-indicators,above>>) at endpoint:

 http://<SERVER_URL>/bonita/metrics

Use this URL to configure your installed Prometheus configuration in order to record and display the metrics.

Sample extract of exposed Prometheus data:

 # HELP jvm_buffer_memory_used_bytes An estimate of the memory that the Java virtual machine is using for this buffer pool
 # TYPE jvm_buffer_memory_used_bytes gauge
 jvm_buffer_memory_used_bytes{id="direct",} 565248.0
 jvm_buffer_memory_used_bytes{id="mapped",} 0.0
 # HELP bonita_bpmengine_connector_pending
 # TYPE bonita_bpmengine_connector_pending gauge
 bonita_bpmengine_connector_pending{tenant="1",} 0.0
 # HELP bonita_bpmengine_connector_executed_total
 # TYPE bonita_bpmengine_connector_executed_total counter
 bonita_bpmengine_connector_executed_total{tenant="1",} 0.0
 # HELP bonita_bpmengine_work_running
 # TYPE bonita_bpmengine_work_running gauge
 bonita_bpmengine_work_running{tenant="1",} 0.0
 # HELP jvm_gc_max_data_size_bytes Max size of old generation memory pool
 # TYPE jvm_gc_max_data_size_bytes gauge
 jvm_gc_max_data_size_bytes 7.16177408E8
 # HELP bonita_bpmengine_work_pending
 # TYPE bonita_bpmengine_work_pending gauge
 bonita_bpmengine_work_pending{tenant="1",} 0.0
 # HELP tomcat_servlet_request_max_seconds
 # TYPE tomcat_servlet_request_max_seconds gauge
 tomcat_servlet_request_max_seconds{name="default",} 0.0
 tomcat_servlet_request_max_seconds{name="dispatcherServlet",} 0.104
 # HELP tomcat_threads_config_max_threads
 # TYPE tomcat_threads_config_max_threads gauge
 tomcat_threads_config_max_threads{name="http-nio-8080",} 200.0
 # HELP tomcat_sessions_expired_sessions_total
 # TYPE tomcat_sessions_expired_sessions_total counter
 tomcat_sessions_expired_sessions_total 0.0
 # HELP tomcat_sessions_active_max_sessions
 # TYPE tomcat_sessions_active_max_sessions gauge
 tomcat_sessions_active_max_sessions 0.0
 ...
