modules/ROOT/pages/salesforce.adoc, before:

= Using SaleForce with Bonita

SaleForce connectors allow you to interact with Saleforce through Bonita.

== Overview

Salesforce version 24.0.0

Available Salesforce connectors are:

* Create Object - Create a Salesforce object (e.g.: Account, Contact)
* Delete Object(s) - Delete one or several Salesforce object with list of objects identifiers in parameters
* Query Object - Execute query on Salesforce objects (e.g.: SELECT Name FROM Account)
* Retrieve Object(s) - Retrieve one or several Salesforce objects
* Update Object(s) - Updates one Salesforce object with a list of objects identifiers in parameters

Parameters are:

* Type of object you want to retrieve (e.g.: Account)
* List of objects identifiers
* List of fields of the object (e.g.: Name, Phone)
* Update object - Update a Salesforce object.

Parameters are:

* Type of object you want to update (e.g.: Account)
* Object identifier
* Map of fields of the object to update (e.g.: Name = MyNewName, Phone = 1234)

A Salesforce account is necessary. See the https://www.salesforce.com[Salesforce web site] for details.

All connectors have these required parameters in common:

* Username
* Password
* Security Token (it could be obtained via the Salesforce user interface)

There are also optional parameters:

* Endpoint: Endpoint URL
* Authentication endpoint: Endpoint configuration
* Service endpoint: Service endpoint URL
* REST endpoint: REST endpoint URL
* Proxy (if you use a proxy)
* Proxy port
* Proxy name
* Proxy password
* Timeout: timeout
* Read timeout

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/salesforce.adoc, after:

= Using SaleForce with Bonita
:description: SaleForce connectors allow you to interact with Saleforce through Bonita.

SaleForce connectors allow you to interact with Saleforce through Bonita.

== Overview

Salesforce version 24.0.0

Available Salesforce connectors are:

* Create Object - Create a Salesforce object (e.g.: Account, Contact)
* Delete Object(s) - Delete one or several Salesforce object with list of objects identifiers in parameters
* Query Object - Execute query on Salesforce objects (e.g.: SELECT Name FROM Account)
* Retrieve Object(s) - Retrieve one or several Salesforce objects
* Update Object(s) - Updates one Salesforce object with a list of objects identifiers in parameters

Parameters are:

* Type of object you want to retrieve (e.g.: Account)
* List of objects identifiers
* List of fields of the object (e.g.: Name, Phone)
* Update object - Update a Salesforce object.

Parameters are:

* Type of object you want to update (e.g.: Account)
* Object identifier
* Map of fields of the object to update (e.g.: Name = MyNewName, Phone = 1234)

A Salesforce account is necessary. See the https://www.salesforce.com[Salesforce web site] for details.

All connectors have these required parameters in common:

* Username
* Password
* Security Token (it could be obtained via the Salesforce user interface)

There are also optional parameters:

* Endpoint: Endpoint URL
* Authentication endpoint: Endpoint configuration
* Service endpoint: Service endpoint URL
* REST endpoint: REST endpoint URL
* Proxy (if you use a proxy)
* Proxy port
* Proxy name
* Proxy password
* Timeout: timeout
* Read timeout
