modules/ROOT/pages/special-users.adoc, before:

= Special users

This page explains the three other ways to log into Bonita than with a regular profile: Tenant Administrator (Technical user), Platform Administrator, and Guest user.

== Platform administrator.

The platform is the part of the system that is common to all tenants. The platform administrator can manage xref:platform-api.adoc[through the API] the platform level resources (including starting/stopping all services of the platform and managing tenants). He can also access the license information (for Enterprise editions). +
Its username and password are defined in a configuration file and need to be changed for any other usage of a Bonita Tomcat bundle than local development (see
link:tomcat-bundle.md#toc3[Bonita Tomcat bundle installation procedure] for more information on how to proceed.
Its default credentials are:

* username: `platformAdmin`
* password: `platform`

== Technical user

Each tenant has an administrator (also known as the *tenant technical user*) with a tenant-specific username and password. The tenant administrator can start and stop the BPM services for the tenant, install a Business Data Model, install the resources and the organization. +
Their username and password are defined in a configuration file and need to be changed for any other usage of a Bonita Tomcat bundle than local development (see
xref:tenant_admin_credentials.adoc[Tenant admin credentials page] for more information on how to proceed.
Its default credentials are:

* username: `install`
* password: `install`

== Guest user

With enterprise editions, it is possible to allow public access to some living applications (without the need to sign in to Bonita).
When accessing a public application without any active session on Bonita platform the user will be automatically logged in with a guest user account. +
To know more about this feature, go to the xref:guest-user.adoc[Guest user access documentation].

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/special-users.adoc, after:

= Special users
:description: This page explains the three other ways to log into Bonita than with a regular profile: Tenant Administrator (Technical user), Platform Administrator, and Guest user.

This page explains the three other ways to log into Bonita than with a regular profile: Tenant Administrator (Technical user), Platform Administrator, and Guest user.

== Platform administrator.

The platform is the part of the system that is common to all tenants. The platform administrator can manage xref:platform-api.adoc[through the API] the platform level resources (including starting/stopping all services of the platform and managing tenants). He can also access the license information (for Enterprise editions). +
Its username and password are defined in a configuration file and need to be changed for any other usage of a Bonita Tomcat bundle than local development (see
link:tomcat-bundle.md#toc3[Bonita Tomcat bundle installation procedure] for more information on how to proceed.
Its default credentials are:

* username: `platformAdmin`
* password: `platform`

== Technical user

Each tenant has an administrator (also known as the *tenant technical user*) with a tenant-specific username and password. The tenant administrator can start and stop the BPM services for the tenant, install a Business Data Model, install the resources and the organization. +
Their username and password are defined in a configuration file and need to be changed for any other usage of a Bonita Tomcat bundle than local development (see
xref:tenant_admin_credentials.adoc[Tenant admin credentials page] for more information on how to proceed.
Its default credentials are:

* username: `install`
* password: `install`

== Guest user

With enterprise editions, it is possible to allow public access to some living applications (without the need to sign in to Bonita).
When accessing a public application without any active session on Bonita platform the user will be automatically logged in with a guest user account. +
To know more about this feature, go to the xref:guest-user.adoc[Guest user access documentation].
