modules/ROOT/pages/tutorial-overview.adoc, before:

= Tutorial overview
:description: Welcome to this Bonita getting started tutorial. On this page you will be guided throughout the steps required to create a Bonita application. +

Welcome to this Bonita getting started tutorial. On this page you will be guided throughout the steps required to create a Bonita application. +
An application offers customized user interfaces to end-users while standardized processes run in the background, to deliver the full potential of BPM solutions. +
You will then be able to adapt and extend this example to fit your own needs.

If you can't wait to start creating your first application with Bonita, you can safely skip this page and move to the xref:bonita-bpm-studio-installation.adoc[Bonita Studio installation] page.

[NOTE]
====

If you have any problems while working through this tutorial, you can https://community.bonitasoft.com/questions-and-answers[ask for help on the Bonita Community web site] and/or open an issue on the Bonita https://bonita.atlassian.net/projects/BBPMC/issues[Community issue tracker].
====

== Before starting

Make sure to check out the page that tells you everything about xref:what-is-bonita.adoc[What Bonita is].

== What are the steps to create a Bonita application?

Thanks to the low-code Bonita platform you won't need to write a lot of code to create an application.
The creation of Bonita applications relies heavily on models:

* a process model (using BPMN standard)
* a data model for business data management
* a WYSIWYG tool for user interface design
* and more.

Creating an application in Bonita Studio (the Bonita development environment) requires the following steps:

* graphically design one or several processes using BPMN notation
* define the data model using the Bonita Business Data Management feature (you can of course use your own database if needed)
* create web user interfaces using the Bonita UI Designer (or your preferred web framework)
* define users involved in the process, as well as the resources they have access to
* configure connectors to integrate Bonita with the information system (e.g. to send an email, call a web service, and more.)

We will cover these steps in this getting started tutorial so you can get familiar with the concepts behind a Bonita application.

Ready? Let's move to the nexts step: xref:bonita-studio-download-installation.adoc[download and install Bonita Studio].

Commit message:

update(getting started): fill out the todo, fix first page (#1623)
* update(getting started): fill out the todo
* remove reference to overview
* fill all cards descriptions


Co-authored-by: Adrien <adrien.lachambre@bonitasoft.com>

modules/ROOT/pages/tutorial-overview.adoc, after:

= Tutorial overview
:description: Welcome to this Bonita getting started tutorial. On this page you will be guided throughout the steps required to create a Bonita application. +

Welcome to this Bonita getting started tutorial. On this page you will be guided throughout the steps required to create a Bonita application. +
An application offers customized user interfaces to end-users while standardized processes run in the background, to deliver the full potential of BPM solutions. +
You will then be able to adapt and extend this example to fit your own needs.

[NOTE]
====

If you have any problems while working through this tutorial, you can https://community.bonitasoft.com/questions-and-answers[ask for help on the Bonita Community web site] and/or open an issue on the Bonita https://bonita.atlassian.net/projects/BBPMC/issues[Community issue tracker].
====

== Before starting

. Make sure to xref:what-is-bonita.adoc[check this chapter], that tells you everything about what Bonita is. +
. xref:bonita-studio-download-installation.adoc[Install your Bonita Studio].

== What are the steps to create a Bonita application?

Thanks to the low-code Bonita platform you will not need to write a lot of code to create an application.
The creation of Bonita applications relies heavily on models:

* a process model (using BPMN standard)
* a data model for business data management
* a WYSIWYG tool for user interface design
* and more.

Creating an application in Bonita Studio (the Bonita development environment) requires the following steps:

* graphically design one or several processes using BPMN notation
* define the data model using the Bonita Business Data Management feature (you can of course use your own database if needed)
* create web user interfaces using the Bonita UI Designer (or your preferred web framework)
* define users involved in the process, as well as the resources they have access to
* configure connectors to integrate Bonita with the information system (e.g. to send an email, call a web service, and more.)

We will cover these steps in this getting started tutorial so you can get familiar with the concepts behind a Bonita application.

Ready? Let's move to the nexts step: xref:draw-bpmn-diagram.adoc[draw a BPMN diagram].
