modules/ROOT/pages/uipath.adoc, before:

= UiPath

This page explains how to configure the UiPath connectors in Bonita Studio. UiPath is a global software company that develops a platform for robotic process automation (RPA). +
RPA is a complementary technology to BPM that handles high-volume, repeatable tasks that previously required humans to perform. RPA technology consists of software robots that mimic a human. Processes can leverage RPA technology when needed to gain efficiency and focus human on added value tasks. https://www.bonitasoft.com/robotic-process-automation[Combining BPM and RPA] allows end to end automation and avoids what is called "islands of automation" by adding the orchestration capacity of a BPM platform to the RPA approach.

All connectors share common authentication settings, and have other specific settings.

== UiPath - Authentication settings

Depending on the type of your UiPath platform (On-premise / Cloud), the authentication settings are different.

=== On-premise authentication

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| URL
| UiPath Orchestrator endpoint url
| string
| https://demo.uipath.com/

| Tenant name
| Target tenant on the orchestrator
| string
| Default

| Username or Email
|
| string
|

| Password
|
| password
|
|===

=== Cloud authentication

Details concerning UiPath cloud authentication can be found on the https://docs.uipath.com/orchestrator/reference#consuming-cloud-api[UiPath documentation]

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| Account logical name
| Your unique site URL
| string
| bonitoyeiuiu

| Tenant logical name
| The selected service's logical name
| string
| BonitasoftDq96g314984

| User key
| Unique key to generate login tokens
| string
| pb9Mm0s5xc-upnDIr3v1Uey9ZlCjwXIE1bO9i2LN7gQpT

| Client ID
| Specific to the Orchestrator application itself
| string
| 8DEv1AMNXczW3y4U15LL3jYf62jK93n5
|===

== UiPath - Add queue item

Add an item in a specific UiPath queue

=== Queue item definition

Specify information for the new queue item

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| Queue name
| The name of the queue into which the item will be added.
| string
|

| Reference
| An optional, user-specified value for queue item identification (128 characters max).
| string
|

| Priority
| Sets the processing importance for a given item.
| choice
| High,Normal,Low

| Defer date
| The earliest date and time (ISO-8601 format) at which the item is available for processing. If empty the item can be processed as soon as possible.
| string
|

| Due date
| The latest date and time (ISO-8601 format) at which the item should be processed. If empty the item can be processed at any given time.
| string
|
|===

=== Specific content

Key/value pairs containing custom data (complex type will be serialized in a JSON string)

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| queueContent
| Key,Value
| array
|
|===

== UiPath - Get job

Get a UiPath Job status

=== Connector settings

Set connection and authentication connector parameters.

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| Job ID
| The ID of the job to request.
| string
|
|===

== UiPath - Start jobs

Start UiPath jobs

=== Job configuration

Configure job parameters.

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| Process name
| The UiPath process name to execute
| string
|

| Process version
| If empty, current process release will be used.
| string
|

| Strategy
| States which robots from the environment are being run by the process.
| choice
| All,Specific,JobsCount

| Robot names (if Specific strategy)
|
| list
|

| Jobs count (if JobsCount strategy)
| Number of pending jobs to be created in the environment, for the current process. This number must be greater than 0 only if the start strategy is JobsCount.
| integer
|
|===

=== Input parameters

Input parameters to be passed to job execution.

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| inputArguments
| Key,Value
| array
|
|===

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/uipath.adoc, after:

= UiPath
:description: This page explains how to configure the UiPath connectors in Bonita Studio. UiPath is a global software company that develops a platform for robotic process automation (RPA). +

This page explains how to configure the UiPath connectors in Bonita Studio. UiPath is a global software company that develops a platform for robotic process automation (RPA). +
RPA is a complementary technology to BPM that handles high-volume, repeatable tasks that previously required humans to perform. RPA technology consists of software robots that mimic a human. Processes can leverage RPA technology when needed to gain efficiency and focus human on added value tasks. https://www.bonitasoft.com/robotic-process-automation[Combining BPM and RPA] allows end to end automation and avoids what is called "islands of automation" by adding the orchestration capacity of a BPM platform to the RPA approach.

All connectors share common authentication settings, and have other specific settings.

== UiPath - Authentication settings

Depending on the type of your UiPath platform (On-premise / Cloud), the authentication settings are different.

=== On-premise authentication

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| URL
| UiPath Orchestrator endpoint url
| string
| https://demo.uipath.com/

| Tenant name
| Target tenant on the orchestrator
| string
| Default

| Username or Email
|
| string
|

| Password
|
| password
|
|===

=== Cloud authentication

Details concerning UiPath cloud authentication can be found on the https://docs.uipath.com/orchestrator/reference#consuming-cloud-api[UiPath documentation]

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| Account logical name
| Your unique site URL
| string
| bonitoyeiuiu

| Tenant logical name
| The selected service's logical name
| string
| BonitasoftDq96g314984

| User key
| Unique key to generate login tokens
| string
| pb9Mm0s5xc-upnDIr3v1Uey9ZlCjwXIE1bO9i2LN7gQpT

| Client ID
| Specific to the Orchestrator application itself
| string
| 8DEv1AMNXczW3y4U15LL3jYf62jK93n5
|===

== UiPath - Add queue item

Add an item in a specific UiPath queue

=== Queue item definition

Specify information for the new queue item

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| Queue name
| The name of the queue into which the item will be added.
| string
|

| Reference
| An optional, user-specified value for queue item identification (128 characters max).
| string
|

| Priority
| Sets the processing importance for a given item.
| choice
| High,Normal,Low

| Defer date
| The earliest date and time (ISO-8601 format) at which the item is available for processing. If empty the item can be processed as soon as possible.
| string
|

| Due date
| The latest date and time (ISO-8601 format) at which the item should be processed. If empty the item can be processed at any given time.
| string
|
|===

=== Specific content

Key/value pairs containing custom data (complex type will be serialized in a JSON string)

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| queueContent
| Key,Value
| array
|
|===

== UiPath - Get job

Get a UiPath Job status

=== Connector settings

Set connection and authentication connector parameters.

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| Job ID
| The ID of the job to request.
| string
|
|===

== UiPath - Start jobs

Start UiPath jobs

=== Job configuration

Configure job parameters.

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| Process name
| The UiPath process name to execute
| string
|

| Process version
| If empty, current process release will be used.
| string
|

| Strategy
| States which robots from the environment are being run by the process.
| choice
| All,Specific,JobsCount

| Robot names (if Specific strategy)
|
| list
|

| Jobs count (if JobsCount strategy)
| Number of pending jobs to be created in the environment, for the current process. This number must be greater than 0 only if the start strategy is JobsCount.
| integer
|
|===

=== Input parameters

Input parameters to be passed to job execution.

|===
| Name | Description | Type | Example

| inputArguments
| Key,Value
| array
|
|===
