modules/ROOT/pages/upgrade-from-community-to-a-subscription-edition.adoc, before:

= Bonita edition change - Community to/from Enterprise
:description: Learn how to change Bonita edition: move from a Bonita Community to any Bonita Enterprise or vice-versa

Learn how to change Bonita edition: move from a Bonita Community to any Bonita Enterprise or vice-versa.

*Upgrading* means moving from a Bonita Community edition environment to any Bonita Enterprise
edition environment.

*Downgrading* means moving from a Bonita Enterprise edition environment to a Bonita Community
edition environment.

== To check before upgrading / downgrading

A Bonita edition change can only be performed on the same Bonita version.

You cannot migrate to a new version at the same time as you upgrade to Enterprise edition. +
Eg. You can only upgrade from *Bonita 2021.2 Community* edition to *Bonita 2021.2 Enterprise* edition. You *cannot* upgrade from *Bonita 2021.2 Community* to *Bonita 2021.3 Enterprise*. +
This also applies for the downgrade.

== Upgrade

An upgrade is performed in two phases.

=== Bonita studio

To upgrade a Community edition of Bonita Studio and its resources (such as process diagrams, data models), follow these steps:

. xref:bonita-bpm-studio-installation.adoc[Install a Bonita  Studio] Enterprise edition.
. If you are using GIT, clone your project, it will be upgraded during the clone operation
. if you are not using GIT
.. Export your projects from the Bonita Studio Community edition to `.bos` archives. We recommend that you keep those archives as a backup.
.. Import your `.bos` archives into the Bonita Studio in Enterprise edition.

The upgrade is performed automatically and silently when importing resources into Bonita Studio Enterprise edition.


[#bonita-platform-upgrade]
=== Bonita platform

Upgrading a Bonita platform allows you to keep the platform data (process definitions, cases, BDM...)
while benefiting from the Enterprise edition features.

[NOTE]
====
The *upgrade procedure* is quite simple and should not take more that 30 minutes. +
The *service downtime* should not be more that 5-10 minutes.
====

[WARNING]
====
A Bonita platform upgrade can only be performed on the same database vendor (E.g. PostgreSQL) and on the same Bonita version (E.g. Bonita 2021.2 (=_7.13_))
====

To upgrade a Bonita platform from a Community edition to an Enterprise edition, follow these steps:

. Download and unzip the Bonita Enterprise bundle (to retrieve the bonita.war Web App later)
. Retrieve an xref:licenses.adoc[Enterprise license] file
. Run `<bonita-installation>/setup/setup(.sh/.bat) pull` to fetch your current Community configuration in `<bonita-installation>/setup/platform_conf/current`
. Create license folder `<bonita-installation>/setup/platform_conf/licenses/`
. Copy your license file into this newly-created folder
. Push your new license in the database: `<bonita-installation>/setup/setup(.sh/.bat) push`
. Stop Bonita Community platform with `<bonita-installation>/stop-bonita(.sh/.bat)` script. *Do not remove the WAR file before stopping Tomcat, or many errors would be issued in the log* (See xref:#_notes[note 1 for explanations])
. Remove Bonita Community Web App from `<bonita-installation>/server/webapps`: both `bonita.war` and the auto-extracted folder with the same name `bonita/`
. Copy the Bonita Enterprise Web App (extracted from Bonita Enterprise bundle) where the Community version was: `<bonita-installation>/server/webapps/bonita.war`
. ⚠ (Optionally rename the `<bonita-installation>` folder with a name that does not contain anymore the word `community`, for clarity)
. Start the upgraded Bonita platform using `<bonita-installation>/start-bonita(.sh/.bat)` script


=== Notes

. If you remove bonita webapp folder while Tomcat is running, Tomcat server considers that the webapp should be completely
unloaded and removed. It also deletes the webapp configuration file `<bonita-installation>/server/conf/Catalina/localhost/bonita.xml`, resulting in many errors in the log files. Hopefully, Bonita restores this file during next run of `start-bonita(.sh/.bat)` script

The upgrade is now finished, you can verify that you are now running an Enterprise edition in the portal user interface; the dialog displayed from the top right "Settings / About" menu should indicate the correct Enterprise edition.

Once you have started Bonita Enterprise platform at least once, you can pull your Enterprise configuration (`<install>/setup/setup(.sh/.bat) pull`)
and change the Enterprise-specific configuration files to match your needs. See xref:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.adoc[Bonita platform setup tool] for details about
how to apply configuration changes.

== Downgrade

[WARNING]
====
Downgrading to Bonita Community edition means you will not be able to use Bonita Enterprise edition features anymore,
so a prerequisite is to ensure you do not use any of these features before downgrading. Neither in your processes, nor in
the platform settings.
====

=== Bonita studio

To downgrade an Enterprise edition of Bonita Studio and its resources (such as process diagrams, data models), follow these steps:

. xref:bonita-bpm-studio-installation.adoc[Install a Bonita  Studio] Community edition.
. If you are using GIT, clone your project, it will be downgraded during the clone operation
. if you are not using GIT
.. Export your projects from the Bonita Studio Enterprise edition to `.bos` archives. We recommend that you keep those archives as a backup.
.. Import your `.bos` archives into the Community edition of Bonita Studio.

The downgrade is performed automatically and silently when importing resources into Bonita Studio Community edition.

[NOTE]
====
If you want to import a project built with Bonita Enterprise Edition from Git, you just need to clone the project from GitHub in Bonita Studio Community Enterprise Edition. 
====

[#bonita-platform-downgrade]
=== Bonita platform

To downgrade a Bonita platform from an Enterprise edition to a Community edition, follow these steps:

. Download and unzip the Bonita Community bundle (to retrieve the bonita.war Web App later)
. Stop Bonita Enterprise platform with `<bonita-installation>/stop-bonita(.sh/.bat)` script. *Do not remove the WAR file before stopping Tomcat, or many errors would be issued in the log* (See xref:#_notes[note 1 for explanations])
. Remove Bonita Enterprise Web App from `<bonita-installation>/server/webapps`: both `bonita.war` and the auto-extracted folder with the same name `bonita/`
. Copy the Bonita Community Web App (extracted from Bonita Community bundle) where the Enterprise version was: `<bonita-installation>/server/webapps/bonita.war`
. ⚠ (Optionally rename the `<bonita-installation>` folder with a name that does not contain anymore the word `subscription` or `enterprise`, for clarity)
. Start the downgraded Bonita platform using `<bonita-installation>/start-bonita(.sh/.bat)` script

The downgrade is now finished, you can verify that you are now running a Community edition in the portal user interface; the dialog displayed from the top right "Settings / About" menu should not indicate Enterprise edition anymore.

You should also ensure that there are no errors in the log file, referencing Enterprise features.

Commit message:

feat(com/ent upgrade): Change where to check the upgrade (#1646)
Remove mention of portal since there will be no portal in 2021.2

modules/ROOT/pages/upgrade-from-community-to-a-subscription-edition.adoc, after:

= Bonita edition change - Community to/from Enterprise
:description: Learn how to change Bonita edition: move from a Bonita Community to any Bonita Enterprise or vice-versa

Learn how to change Bonita edition: move from a Bonita Community to any Bonita Enterprise or vice-versa.

*Upgrading* means moving from a Bonita Community edition environment to any Bonita Enterprise
edition environment.

*Downgrading* means moving from a Bonita Enterprise edition environment to a Bonita Community
edition environment.

== To check before upgrading / downgrading

A Bonita edition change can only be performed on the same Bonita version.

You cannot migrate to a new version at the same time as you upgrade to Enterprise edition. +
Eg. You can only upgrade from *Bonita 2021.2 Community* edition to *Bonita 2021.2 Enterprise* edition. You *cannot* upgrade from *Bonita 2021.2 Community* to *Bonita 2021.3 Enterprise*. +
This also applies for the downgrade.

== Upgrade

An upgrade is performed in two phases.

=== Bonita studio

To upgrade a Community edition of Bonita Studio and its resources (such as process diagrams, data models), follow these steps:

. xref:bonita-bpm-studio-installation.adoc[Install a Bonita  Studio] Enterprise edition.
. If you are using GIT, clone your project, it will be upgraded during the clone operation
. if you are not using GIT
.. Export your projects from the Bonita Studio Community edition to `.bos` archives. We recommend that you keep those archives as a backup.
.. Import your `.bos` archives into the Bonita Studio in Enterprise edition.

The upgrade is performed automatically and silently when importing resources into Bonita Studio Enterprise edition.


[#bonita-platform-upgrade]
=== Bonita platform

Upgrading a Bonita platform allows you to keep the platform data (process definitions, cases, BDM...)
while benefiting from the Enterprise edition features.

[NOTE]
====
The *upgrade procedure* is quite simple and should not take more that 30 minutes. +
The *service downtime* should not be more that 5-10 minutes.
====

[WARNING]
====
A Bonita platform upgrade can only be performed on the same database vendor (E.g. PostgreSQL) and on the same Bonita version (E.g. Bonita 2021.2 (=_7.13_))
====

To upgrade a Bonita platform from a Community edition to an Enterprise edition, follow these steps:

. Download and unzip the Bonita Enterprise bundle (to retrieve the bonita.war Web App later)
. Retrieve an xref:licenses.adoc[Enterprise license] file
. Run `<bonita-installation>/setup/setup(.sh/.bat) pull` to fetch your current Community configuration in `<bonita-installation>/setup/platform_conf/current`
. Create license folder `<bonita-installation>/setup/platform_conf/licenses/`
. Copy your license file into this newly-created folder
. Push your new license in the database: `<bonita-installation>/setup/setup(.sh/.bat) push`
. Stop Bonita Community platform with `<bonita-installation>/stop-bonita(.sh/.bat)` script. *Do not remove the WAR file before stopping Tomcat, or many errors would be issued in the log* (See xref:#_notes[note 1 for explanations])
. Remove Bonita Community Web App from `<bonita-installation>/server/webapps`: both `bonita.war` and the auto-extracted folder with the same name `bonita/`
. Copy the Bonita Enterprise Web App (extracted from Bonita Enterprise bundle) where the Community version was: `<bonita-installation>/server/webapps/bonita.war`
. ⚠ (Optionally rename the `<bonita-installation>` folder with a name that does not contain anymore the word `community`, for clarity)
. Start the upgraded Bonita platform using `<bonita-installation>/start-bonita(.sh/.bat)` script


=== Notes

. If you remove bonita webapp folder while Tomcat is running, Tomcat server considers that the webapp should be completely
unloaded and removed. It also deletes the webapp configuration file `<bonita-installation>/server/conf/Catalina/localhost/bonita.xml`, resulting in many errors in the log files. Hopefully, Bonita restores this file during next run of `start-bonita(.sh/.bat)` script

The upgrade is now finished, you can verify that you are now running an Enterprise edition in the super administrator application; the edition displayed in the "BPM Services" page should indicate Enterprise edition.

Once you have started Bonita Enterprise platform at least once, you can pull your Enterprise configuration (`<install>/setup/setup(.sh/.bat) pull`)
and change the Enterprise-specific configuration files to match your needs. See xref:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.adoc[Bonita platform setup tool] for details about
how to apply configuration changes.

== Downgrade

[WARNING]
====
Downgrading to Bonita Community edition means you will not be able to use Bonita Enterprise edition features anymore,
so a prerequisite is to ensure you do not use any of these features before downgrading. Neither in your processes, nor in
the platform settings.
====

=== Bonita studio

To downgrade an Enterprise edition of Bonita Studio and its resources (such as process diagrams, data models), follow these steps:

. xref:bonita-bpm-studio-installation.adoc[Install a Bonita  Studio] Community edition.
. If you are using GIT, clone your project, it will be downgraded during the clone operation
. if you are not using GIT
.. Export your projects from the Bonita Studio Enterprise edition to `.bos` archives. We recommend that you keep those archives as a backup.
.. Import your `.bos` archives into the Community edition of Bonita Studio.

The downgrade is performed automatically and silently when importing resources into Bonita Studio Community edition.

[NOTE]
====
If you want to import a project built with Bonita Enterprise Edition from Git, you just need to clone the project from GitHub in Bonita Studio Community Enterprise Edition. 
====

[#bonita-platform-downgrade]
=== Bonita platform

To downgrade a Bonita platform from an Enterprise edition to a Community edition, follow these steps:

. Download and unzip the Bonita Community bundle (to retrieve the bonita.war Web App later)
. Stop Bonita Enterprise platform with `<bonita-installation>/stop-bonita(.sh/.bat)` script. *Do not remove the WAR file before stopping Tomcat, or many errors would be issued in the log* (See xref:#_notes[note 1 for explanations])
. Remove Bonita Enterprise Web App from `<bonita-installation>/server/webapps`: both `bonita.war` and the auto-extracted folder with the same name `bonita/`
. Copy the Bonita Community Web App (extracted from Bonita Community bundle) where the Enterprise version was: `<bonita-installation>/server/webapps/bonita.war`
. ⚠ (Optionally rename the `<bonita-installation>` folder with a name that does not contain anymore the word `subscription` or `enterprise`, for clarity)
. Start the downgraded Bonita platform using `<bonita-installation>/start-bonita(.sh/.bat)` script

The downgrade is now finished, you can verify that you are now running a Community edition in the super administrator application; the edition displayed in the "BPM Services" page should indicate Community edition.

You should also ensure that there are no errors in the log file, referencing Enterprise features.
