modules/ROOT/pages/user-authentication-overview.adoc, before:

= User authentication overview

Learn how user authentication is achieved in Bonita. This page can be helpful to troubleshoot and debug authentication issues.

If you want to find out how to customize authentication refer to the dedicated documentation pages:

* xref:active-directory-or-ldap-authentication.adoc[LDAP server / Active Directory]
* xref:single-sign-on-with-cas.adoc[CAS single sign-on (SSO)]
* xref:single-sign-on-with-saml.adoc[Single sign-on with SAML (SSO)]
* xref:single-sign-on-with-kerberos.adoc[Single sign-on with Kerberos (SSO)]

== Bonita Portal authentication scenario

To help understand how user authentication is performed, let's take a typical case where a user accesses the Bonita Portal for the first time. This scenario is the default (no LDAP authentication, nor CAS).

image::images/images-6_0/user_auth_schema_70.png[user authentication]

. In a web browser, the user types the URL of Bonita Portal
(e.g. `+http://localhost:8080/bonita+`) that will initiate a
HTTP request handled by the application server that delegates
processing to the Bonita web application.
. When asked for the Bonita root, the URL server will
provide a `index.html` file (you can find the `index.html`
in the `bonita.war` file). This is defined by the `welcome-file`
property in the Bonita web application deployment descriptor (a `web.xml`
file located in `bonita.war/WEB-INF`).
. Javascript in `index.html` will redirect the user to `/portal/homepage`
(e.g. `+http://localhost:8080/bonita/portal/homepage+`).
. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/filter/AuthenticationFilter.java[AuthenticationFilter]
applied to the HTTP request send to `/portal/homepage`.
The filter will check if the user is already authenticated. To do so, it will look in the HTTP session for an `apiSession` attribute (see https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/filter/AlreadyLoggedInRule.java[AlreadyLoggedInRule]).
If an `apiSession` attribute exists, this means a user is already authenticated.
. If the attribute `apiSession` is not set, the user will be redirected to the login page.
*Note:* Information about the original page the user tried to reach is included in a URL parameter named `redirectURL`.
The login page URL is determined by the https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/common/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/AuthenticationManager.java[AuthenticationManager]
implementation. The implementation to use for the current tenant is configured in a file `authenticationManager-config.properties`
(located in `setup/platform_conf/initial/tenant_template_portal` or `setup/platform_conf/current/tenants/[tenantid]/tenant_portal` and updatable using the xref:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.adoc[platform setup tool]).
The default https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/common/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/AuthenticationManager.java[AuthenticationManager]
is https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/impl/standard/StandardAuthenticationManagerImpl.java[StandardAuthenticationManagerImpl].
Its behavior is to redirect to the `login.jsp` page embedded in the webapp.
Supporting different implementations enables authentication on an external application (useful for SSO deployement for example).
. `login.jsp` page will ask the user for the username
and password (HTML form). When submitting the form, a `POST`
request is sent to `/loginservice`. The request includes the
username, password, tenant id (if provided in the URL, only applied to
subscription editions), locale (optional, by priority order: provided
in the URL, stored in HTTP cookie) and the `redirectURL`
information.
. URL `/loginservice` is handled by https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/servlet/LoginServlet.java[LoginServlet].
. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/servlet/LoginServlet.java[LoginServlet]
calls `login` method of https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/LoginManager.java[LoginManager]
. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/LoginManager.java[LoginManager]
searches for an https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/common/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/AuthenticationManager.java[AuthenticationManager]
implementation based on configuration file for current tenant (xref:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.adoc[`authenticationManager-config.properties`]). The default https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/common/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/AuthenticationManager.java[AuthenticationManager]
is https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/impl/standard/StandardAuthenticationManagerImpl.java[StandardAuthenticationManagerImpl].
. `authenticate` method is called on the https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/common/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/AuthenticationManager.java[AuthenticationManager].
`authenticate` method of https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/impl/standard/StandardAuthenticationManagerImpl.java[StandardAuthenticationManagerImpl]
implementation of this method does nothing (the subsequent engine login is enough to authenticate the user)
. The authentication is considered successful if no Exception is thrown by the `authenticate` method.
. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/LoginManager.java[LoginManager]
will then call engine API http://documentation.bonitasoft.com/javadoc/api/${varVersion}/org/bonitasoft/engine/api/LoginAPI.html#login(java.lang.String,%20java.lang.String)[LoginAPI.login()]
. At this point, operations are processed on Bonita Engine side. Engine (see https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-process-engine/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/api/impl/LoginAPIImpl.java[LoginAPIImpl]
class) verifies that the username and password are not empty. A verification is also done to validate that the tenant is enabled (use provided tenant id or default one if not provided). Then https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-process-engine/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/api/impl/LoginAPIImpl.java[LoginAPIImpl]
will call https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-login/bonita-login-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/core/login/LoginService.java[LoginService]
(one implementation available: https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-login/bonita-login-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/core/login/SecuredLoginServiceImpl.java[SecuredLoginService]).
. SecuredLoginService calls https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-authentication/bonita-authentication-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/authentication/GenericAuthenticationService.java[GenericAuthenticationService].
The default implementation is: https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-authentication/bonita-authentication-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/authentication/impl/AuthenticationServiceImpl.java[AuthenticationServiceImpl].
. The https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-authentication/bonita-authentication-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/authentication/impl/AuthenticationServiceImpl.java[AuthenticationServiceImpl]
verifies that your username and password are valid.
. After call of the https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-authentication/bonita-authentication-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/authentication/GenericAuthenticationService.java[GenericAuthenticationService],
https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-login/bonita-login-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/core/login/SecuredLoginServiceImpl.java[SecuredLoginServiceImpl]
performs an extra check to verify that the provided username exists in the Bonita database (https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-login/bonita-login-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/core/login/SecuredLoginServiceImpl.java[SecuredLoginServiceImpl]
does not trust https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-authentication/bonita-authentication-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/authentication/impl/AuthenticationServiceImpl.java[AuthenticationServiceImpl]).
*Note:* A specific behavior applies for the tenant technical user.
. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-login/bonita-login-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/core/login/SecuredLoginServiceImpl.java[SecuredLoginServiceImpl]
returns an object that represents the session. This is a server side only object (https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-session/bonita-session-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/model/SSession.java[SSession])
. Call get back to https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-process-engine/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/api/impl/LoginAPIImpl.java[LoginAPIImpl]
that converts https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-session/bonita-session-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/model/SSession.java[SSession]
to https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-api/bonita-common-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/APISession.java[APISession].
. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-api/bonita-common-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/APISession.java[APISession]
is provided back up to the https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/LoginManager.java[LoginManager]
that will add session information as HTTP session attribute.
. Call get back to https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/servlet/LoginServlet.java[LoginServlet]
that will redirect the user to the requested page.

NOTE: If you xref:single-sign-on-with-cas.adoc[configure your Bonita platform to use CAS], the logical flow of authentication is the same as above.
The difference is that at step 7 the CASRemoteLoginManager is used instead of the default loginManager and at step 12 the `JAASGenericAuthenticationServiceImpl` is called instead of the default authentication service, `AuthenticationServiceImpl`.
The `loginManager-config.properties` file for a tenant controls which login manager and authentication service (`cfg-bonita-authentication-impl.xml`) are used.

== Information about sessions

Two type of session are involved when using Bonita Portal:

* The HTTP session
* The Bonita Engine session

The sessoin timeout values for these two sessions should be set to the same value.

*The HTTP session.*

This session is created by the application server
and corresponds to one user.

*The Bonita Engine session*

See https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-api/bonita-common-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/APISession.java[APISession]
class. This session is created by Bonita Engine on the Bonita Portal request, when the user submits a login page.

*Session expiration*

If the Engine session has expired and the user tries to reach one of the Bonita Portal pages,
an exception will be raised. Bonita Portal will catch this exception,
invalidate the HTTP session and redirect the user to the login page.

NOTE: The Bonita Engine default session duration is one hour (default value
defined in https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-session/bonita-session-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/impl/SessionServiceImpl.java[SessionServiceImpl]).
You can configure a different session duration by editing the `bonita.tenant.session.duration` property in `bonita-tenant-community-custom.properties`. Specify the duration in milliseconds.

If the HTTP session has expired, Bonita Portal will redirect the user to the
authentication page. The Bonita Engine session associated with the HTTP
session that has just expired will remain active until it reaches the
inactivity timeout. A *cron job* takes care of cleaning up inactive
Engine sessions.

NOTE: The HTTP session default duration depends on your application server (for example, 30 minutes for Tomcat).

*Logout*

In Bonita Portal, if a user clicks on the logout button, both the
Engine session and HTTP session will be invalidated.

== How does the Bonita Portal know if a user is authenticated?

The Bonita Portal checks if a valid Bonita Engine session (https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-api/bonita-common-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/APISession.java[APISession]
object) is found in the
`apiSession`
attribute inside the HttpRequest. If the engine session is still valid, the user will have access to the required resource.

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/user-authentication-overview.adoc, after:

= User authentication overview
:description: Learn how user authentication is achieved in Bonita. This page can be helpful to troubleshoot and debug authentication issues.

Learn how user authentication is achieved in Bonita. This page can be helpful to troubleshoot and debug authentication issues.

If you want to find out how to customize authentication refer to the dedicated documentation pages:

* xref:active-directory-or-ldap-authentication.adoc[LDAP server / Active Directory]
* xref:single-sign-on-with-cas.adoc[CAS single sign-on (SSO)]
* xref:single-sign-on-with-saml.adoc[Single sign-on with SAML (SSO)]
* xref:single-sign-on-with-kerberos.adoc[Single sign-on with Kerberos (SSO)]

== Bonita Portal authentication scenario

To help understand how user authentication is performed, let's take a typical case where a user accesses the Bonita Portal for the first time. This scenario is the default (no LDAP authentication, nor CAS).

image::images/images-6_0/user_auth_schema_70.png[user authentication]

. In a web browser, the user types the URL of Bonita Portal
(e.g. `+http://localhost:8080/bonita+`) that will initiate a
HTTP request handled by the application server that delegates
processing to the Bonita web application.
. When asked for the Bonita root, the URL server will
provide a `index.html` file (you can find the `index.html`
in the `bonita.war` file). This is defined by the `welcome-file`
property in the Bonita web application deployment descriptor (a `web.xml`
file located in `bonita.war/WEB-INF`).
. Javascript in `index.html` will redirect the user to `/portal/homepage`
(e.g. `+http://localhost:8080/bonita/portal/homepage+`).
. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/filter/AuthenticationFilter.java[AuthenticationFilter]
applied to the HTTP request send to `/portal/homepage`.
The filter will check if the user is already authenticated. To do so, it will look in the HTTP session for an `apiSession` attribute (see https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/filter/AlreadyLoggedInRule.java[AlreadyLoggedInRule]).
If an `apiSession` attribute exists, this means a user is already authenticated.
. If the attribute `apiSession` is not set, the user will be redirected to the login page.
*Note:* Information about the original page the user tried to reach is included in a URL parameter named `redirectURL`.
The login page URL is determined by the https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/common/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/AuthenticationManager.java[AuthenticationManager]
implementation. The implementation to use for the current tenant is configured in a file `authenticationManager-config.properties`
(located in `setup/platform_conf/initial/tenant_template_portal` or `setup/platform_conf/current/tenants/[tenantid]/tenant_portal` and updatable using the xref:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.adoc[platform setup tool]).
The default https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/common/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/AuthenticationManager.java[AuthenticationManager]
is https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/impl/standard/StandardAuthenticationManagerImpl.java[StandardAuthenticationManagerImpl].
Its behavior is to redirect to the `login.jsp` page embedded in the webapp.
Supporting different implementations enables authentication on an external application (useful for SSO deployement for example).
. `login.jsp` page will ask the user for the username
and password (HTML form). When submitting the form, a `POST`
request is sent to `/loginservice`. The request includes the
username, password, tenant id (if provided in the URL, only applied to
subscription editions), locale (optional, by priority order: provided
in the URL, stored in HTTP cookie) and the `redirectURL`
information.
. URL `/loginservice` is handled by https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/servlet/LoginServlet.java[LoginServlet].
. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/servlet/LoginServlet.java[LoginServlet]
calls `login` method of https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/LoginManager.java[LoginManager]
. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/LoginManager.java[LoginManager]
searches for an https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/common/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/AuthenticationManager.java[AuthenticationManager]
implementation based on configuration file for current tenant (xref:BonitaBPM_platform_setup.adoc[`authenticationManager-config.properties`]). The default https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/common/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/AuthenticationManager.java[AuthenticationManager]
is https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/impl/standard/StandardAuthenticationManagerImpl.java[StandardAuthenticationManagerImpl].
. `authenticate` method is called on the https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/common/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/AuthenticationManager.java[AuthenticationManager].
`authenticate` method of https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/auth/impl/standard/StandardAuthenticationManagerImpl.java[StandardAuthenticationManagerImpl]
implementation of this method does nothing (the subsequent engine login is enough to authenticate the user)
. The authentication is considered successful if no Exception is thrown by the `authenticate` method.
. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/LoginManager.java[LoginManager]
will then call engine API http://documentation.bonitasoft.com/javadoc/api/${varVersion}/org/bonitasoft/engine/api/LoginAPI.html#login(java.lang.String,%20java.lang.String)[LoginAPI.login()]
. At this point, operations are processed on Bonita Engine side. Engine (see https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-process-engine/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/api/impl/LoginAPIImpl.java[LoginAPIImpl]
class) verifies that the username and password are not empty. A verification is also done to validate that the tenant is enabled (use provided tenant id or default one if not provided). Then https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-process-engine/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/api/impl/LoginAPIImpl.java[LoginAPIImpl]
will call https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-login/bonita-login-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/core/login/LoginService.java[LoginService]
(one implementation available: https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-login/bonita-login-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/core/login/SecuredLoginServiceImpl.java[SecuredLoginService]).
. SecuredLoginService calls https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-authentication/bonita-authentication-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/authentication/GenericAuthenticationService.java[GenericAuthenticationService].
The default implementation is: https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-authentication/bonita-authentication-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/authentication/impl/AuthenticationServiceImpl.java[AuthenticationServiceImpl].
. The https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-authentication/bonita-authentication-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/authentication/impl/AuthenticationServiceImpl.java[AuthenticationServiceImpl]
verifies that your username and password are valid.
. After call of the https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-authentication/bonita-authentication-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/authentication/GenericAuthenticationService.java[GenericAuthenticationService],
https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-login/bonita-login-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/core/login/SecuredLoginServiceImpl.java[SecuredLoginServiceImpl]
performs an extra check to verify that the provided username exists in the Bonita database (https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-login/bonita-login-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/core/login/SecuredLoginServiceImpl.java[SecuredLoginServiceImpl]
does not trust https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-authentication/bonita-authentication-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/authentication/impl/AuthenticationServiceImpl.java[AuthenticationServiceImpl]).
*Note:* A specific behavior applies for the tenant technical user.
. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-login/bonita-login-api-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/core/login/SecuredLoginServiceImpl.java[SecuredLoginServiceImpl]
returns an object that represents the session. This is a server side only object (https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-session/bonita-session-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/model/SSession.java[SSession])
. Call get back to https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-core/bonita-process-engine/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/api/impl/LoginAPIImpl.java[LoginAPIImpl]
that converts https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-session/bonita-session-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/model/SSession.java[SSession]
to https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-api/bonita-common-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/APISession.java[APISession].
. https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-api/bonita-common-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/APISession.java[APISession]
is provided back up to the https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/LoginManager.java[LoginManager]
that will add session information as HTTP session attribute.
. Call get back to https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-web/blob/${varVersion}.0/server/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/console/common/server/login/servlet/LoginServlet.java[LoginServlet]
that will redirect the user to the requested page.

NOTE: If you xref:single-sign-on-with-cas.adoc[configure your Bonita platform to use CAS], the logical flow of authentication is the same as above.
The difference is that at step 7 the CASRemoteLoginManager is used instead of the default loginManager and at step 12 the `JAASGenericAuthenticationServiceImpl` is called instead of the default authentication service, `AuthenticationServiceImpl`.
The `loginManager-config.properties` file for a tenant controls which login manager and authentication service (`cfg-bonita-authentication-impl.xml`) are used.

== Information about sessions

Two type of session are involved when using Bonita Portal:

* The HTTP session
* The Bonita Engine session

The sessoin timeout values for these two sessions should be set to the same value.

*The HTTP session.*

This session is created by the application server
and corresponds to one user.

*The Bonita Engine session*

See https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-api/bonita-common-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/APISession.java[APISession]
class. This session is created by Bonita Engine on the Bonita Portal request, when the user submits a login page.

*Session expiration*

If the Engine session has expired and the user tries to reach one of the Bonita Portal pages,
an exception will be raised. Bonita Portal will catch this exception,
invalidate the HTTP session and redirect the user to the login page.

NOTE: The Bonita Engine default session duration is one hour (default value
defined in https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/services/bonita-session/bonita-session-impl/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/impl/SessionServiceImpl.java[SessionServiceImpl]).
You can configure a different session duration by editing the `bonita.tenant.session.duration` property in `bonita-tenant-community-custom.properties`. Specify the duration in milliseconds.

If the HTTP session has expired, Bonita Portal will redirect the user to the
authentication page. The Bonita Engine session associated with the HTTP
session that has just expired will remain active until it reaches the
inactivity timeout. A *cron job* takes care of cleaning up inactive
Engine sessions.

NOTE: The HTTP session default duration depends on your application server (for example, 30 minutes for Tomcat).

*Logout*

In Bonita Portal, if a user clicks on the logout button, both the
Engine session and HTTP session will be invalidated.

== How does the Bonita Portal know if a user is authenticated?

The Bonita Portal checks if a valid Bonita Engine session (https://github.com/bonitasoft/bonita-engine/blob/${varVersion}.0/bpm/bonita-api/bonita-common-api/src/main/java/org/bonitasoft/engine/session/APISession.java[APISession]
object) is found in the
`apiSession`
attribute inside the HttpRequest. If the engine session is still valid, the user will have access to the required resource.
