modules/ROOT/pages/using-Bonita-Studio.adoc, before:

= Using Bonita Studio
Learn how to efficiently use Bonita Studio

== Structure
Here is the default Studio structure: 

* a top, main menu
* a "coolbar" with generic features
* a "project explorer" displaying the main elements of the project, and providing actions to open them or create new ones.
* a tabs area with all the files you are currently working on
* a "Problems" area to keep an eye on what needs to be fixed before deployment
* a dedicated Git section when the current project is shared with Git.

Each tab contains some specific areas to interact with. +
You can play with the organization of the tabs and areas. If you get lost, use the "View > Reset view" menu option to come back to default.

== Welcome page
The Welcome page is displayed upon the first opening of the Studio. +
It gives access to a lot of resources to help you during the lifetime of the project. +
The welcome page can be opened at any time by clicking on the "Welcome" icon of the coolbar. 

== Preferences
The "Preferences" icon in the studio's coolbar allows a full set of configurations. Find the list and how to use them in xref:bonita-bpm-studio-preferences.adoc[Bonita Studio preferences]

== Open a recently modified diagram

To see a list of recently modified diagrams without having to go to the Welcome page, go to the *File* menu and choose *Recently modified*. +
A submenu of the last ten diagrams you have modified is displayed. Click the *_name_* of a diagram to open it.

== Drawing processes

To learn how to draw a process, go to the xref:draw-bpmn-diagram#_create_the_process_diagram[Getting started tutorial], or read this xref:diagram-overview.adoc[documentation page].

Commit message:

Add lastest changes to the project overview (#1641)
* Update managing-extension-studio.adoc

* Update using-Bonita-Studio.adoc

* Update modules/ROOT/pages/managing-extension-studio.adoc

Co-authored-by: Adrien <adrien.lachambre@bonitasoft.com>

* Update modules/ROOT/pages/using-Bonita-Studio.adoc

Co-authored-by: Adrien <adrien.lachambre@bonitasoft.com>

Co-authored-by: Adrien <adrien.lachambre@bonitasoft.com>

modules/ROOT/pages/using-Bonita-Studio.adoc, after:

= Using Bonita Studio
Learn how to efficiently use Bonita Studio

== Structure
Here is the default Studio structure: 

* a top, main menu
* a "coolbar" with generic features
* a "project explorer" displaying the main elements of the project, and providing actions to open them or create new ones.
* a tabs area with all the files you are currently working on
* a "Problems" area to keep an eye on what needs to be fixed before deployment
* a dedicated Git section when the current project is shared with Git.

Each tab contains some specific areas to interact with. +
You can play with the organization of the tabs and areas. If you get lost, use the "View > Reset view" menu option to come back to default.

== Welcome page
The Welcome page is displayed upon the first opening of the Studio. +
It gives access to a lot of resources to help you during the lifetime of the project. +
The welcome page can be opened at any time by clicking on the "Welcome" icon of the coolbar. 

== Project overview
The project overview is accessible from the Studio coolbar. It provides an overview of the different elements of your project and those you can use to create a state-of-the-art Bonita project.

From the overview, you can access the xref:managing-extension-studio.adoc[extension] view of your project.

== Preferences
The "Preferences" icon in the studio's coolbar allows a full set of configurations. Find the list and how to use them in xref:bonita-bpm-studio-preferences.adoc[Bonita Studio preferences]

== Open a recently modified diagram

To see a list of recently modified diagrams without having to go to the Welcome page, go to the *File* menu and choose *Recently modified*. +
A submenu of the last ten diagrams you have modified is displayed. Click the *_name_* of a diagram to open it.

== Drawing processes

To learn how to draw a process, go to the xref:draw-bpmn-diagram#_create_the_process_diagram[Getting started tutorial], or read this xref:diagram-overview.adoc[documentation page].
