modules/ROOT/pages/web-service-connector-overview.adoc, before:

= Overview of the generic web service connector

The Bonita Studio includes a generic web service connector that leverages SOAP 1.2 protocol.

== Generic configuration

. Go to Web services in the connectors list.
. Select**Web Service Client.**
. Click on _*Next*_
. Enter a name and description for the connector.
. Click on _*Next.*_

To format your entries according to SOAP specifications, go to http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/#intro[SOAP!]

See a working example of a web service connector in this xref:web-service-tutorial.adoc[tutorial].

WARNING: this connector uses the StAX API. StAX libraries cannot be loaded in more than one classloader but must instead be placed in a single location where they can be called by all the items that use them. +
When you configure a process that uses this connector, you must xref:manage-jar-files.adoc[manage the jar files].

== Input

|===
| Input type | Description | Type

| Target NS
| Target NS (URL)
| String

| Service name
| Name of web service
| String

| Port name
| Web service port name
| String

| Request
| Request entity
| String

| End point address
| URL
| String

| Binding
| Specify protocol and data format
| String

| Password
| Password of user authorized to access
| String

| Service NS
| Target namespace (URL)
| String

| Service name
| Name of web service
| String

| Port name
| Web service port name
| String

| End point address
| URL
| String

| Binding
| Specify protocol and data format
| String
|===

== Output

| Output type  | Description  | Type  |
| -------- | -------- | ---- |
| Response  | Result of execution  | Source  |

== Result

The connector will locate and execute the specific web service and return and output in the form of a Java object.

Commit message:

doc(generation): add description meta tag to pages

modules/ROOT/pages/web-service-connector-overview.adoc, after:

= Overview of the generic web service connector
:description: The Bonita Studio includes a generic web service connector that leverages SOAP 1.2 protocol.

The Bonita Studio includes a generic web service connector that leverages SOAP 1.2 protocol.

== Generic configuration

. Go to Web services in the connectors list.
. Select**Web Service Client.**
. Click on _*Next*_
. Enter a name and description for the connector.
. Click on _*Next.*_

To format your entries according to SOAP specifications, go to http://www.w3.org/TR/soap12-part1/#intro[SOAP!]

See a working example of a web service connector in this xref:web-service-tutorial.adoc[tutorial].

WARNING: this connector uses the StAX API. StAX libraries cannot be loaded in more than one classloader but must instead be placed in a single location where they can be called by all the items that use them. +
When you configure a process that uses this connector, you must xref:manage-jar-files.adoc[manage the jar files].

== Input

|===
| Input type | Description | Type

| Target NS
| Target NS (URL)
| String

| Service name
| Name of web service
| String

| Port name
| Web service port name
| String

| Request
| Request entity
| String

| End point address
| URL
| String

| Binding
| Specify protocol and data format
| String

| Password
| Password of user authorized to access
| String

| Service NS
| Target namespace (URL)
| String

| Service name
| Name of web service
| String

| Port name
| Web service port name
| String

| End point address
| URL
| String

| Binding
| Specify protocol and data format
| String
|===

== Output

| Output type  | Description  | Type  |
| -------- | -------- | ---- |
| Response  | Result of execution  | Source  |

== Result

The connector will locate and execute the specific web service and return and output in the form of a Java object.
