# Case overview page

## Overview

This page is related to a case, open or archived. It gives a real-time summary of the case to both users and administrators.
A default _case overview_ page is provided in Bonita BPM Portal.
This page consists of three main sections:
* List of business data: it shows the content of the business variables used by the case in real time: if after a case is archived, other processes edit the business data used in the case, the current values of those business data are displayed.
* List of documents: it shows the content of each document used by the case, in real time too.
* Timeline: it shows in chronological order information about all the actions that have been performed in the selected case.

It is used in the user task list, as the 3rd tab of the details pane on the right.  
And for all profiles, it is also available by navigating from the case list page: on a given case row, click on the "eye" icon.

:::info
**Note:** We strongly recommend to change the _case overview_ page before going into production, to adapt its content to the users' needs.
:::

To customize the default case overview page, log into Bonita BPM Portal as an Administrator, then go to the **Resources** menu > **Pages** section.  

To create your own, you can use the UI Designer following two different flows:
 - The first time you create a _case overview_ page:
   - Go to Bonita BPM Studio and select the pool
   - Go to the **Execution** tab, **Overview page** pane
   - Make sure the _UI Designer_ option is selected
   - Click on the pencil icon right by the input field  
     This will open the UI Designer and automatically map the overview page to the pool.
 - When the page is created and you want to map it to other pools:
   - In the diagram, select the pool
   - Go to the **Execution** tab, **Overview page** pane
   - Click on the drop down menu arrow
   - Select the page name  
     This will create the mapping between the overview page to the pool.

As it is linked to the process, the _case overview_ page designed using UI Designer, belongs to the .bar file (unlike other pages).
<!-- The following text is written below the field of the "External URL" option. Does this apply to overview page? "The processInstanceID is provided in the query string. It is the value of the parameter `id` that is added to the external URL when redirecting. Other REST API resources are available for filling in the page with values, notably a "context" (API/bpm/case/<processInstanceId>/context and API/bpm/archivedCase/<archiveProcessInstanceID>/context) including business data and document references." -->

But you can also use your favorite editor and build your own _case overview_ page.
In this case, when your page is ready:
  - Go to the **Execution** tab, **Overview page** pane
  - Select the **External URL** option
  - Type the page URL.

If you don't want to offer case summary to users or administrators, select the "No form" option in Bonita BPM Studio.

## Customize the default _case overview_ page

::: info
**Note:** This feature is only available in Bonita BPM **Performance** and **Efficiency** editions.
:::

Because it doesn't require information from the end-user but only displays information, the _case overview_ is a page.
Because it is linked to a process definition, the default, auto-generated _case overview_ page wears the UI artifact type "form" in Bonita BPM.
So, to customize the auto-generated _case overview_ page, log into Bonita BPM Portal as an Administrator, then go to the **Resources** menu > **Forms** section.
Select **Autogenerated Case Overview** and export it to open it in your favorite editor. For now, it cannot be edited in the UI Designer.
Once the customized _case overview_ page is finished, use the [live update](live-update.md) feature to set the new _case overview_ page.
