md/define-who-can-do-what.md, before:

# Define who can do what

Up to this point, when you execute the process you were acting as a single user (username: _walter.bates_, password: _bpm_) who can perform all the user tasks. In a scenario closer to a real life use case, there are different types of users: customers (who can submit claims), employees (who answer claims) and the manager of the user who provides the answer (who is needed to interact with unsatisfied customers).

The first step in the configuration of "who can do what" is to create lanes within our pool. We already have one default lane for the employees. Let's add another one for the customer and one for the manager:
1. In Bonita Studio, from the palette on the left hand side of the diagram select the **lane** icon
1. Click inside the process pool to add the lane. Do this twice to have a total of three lanes
1. Select the employee lane and click on the down arrow icon to move it, so it is the middle lane

   ![Add and organize lanes](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/add-and-organize-lanes.gif)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

1. Select _Lane1_, go to the **General > Lane** tab, and rename it _Customer lane_
1. Select  _Lane2_, go to the **General > Lane** tab and rename it _Manager lane_
1. Select the start event _Submit claim_ and move it (via drag and drop) to the _Customer lane_. Do the same for the task _Read the answer and rate it_
1. Select the _Deal with unsatisfied customer_ task and move it to the _Manager lane_. Do the same with the end event _End client unsatisfied_

   ![Diagrams with lanes](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/diagrams-with-lanes.png)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

::: info
A lane is used to group together user tasks that should be done by the same set of users.
:::

Now we need to define "actors," one for each lane, and map them to the lane they belong to:
1. Select the pool
1. Go to **General > Actors**
1. Click on the **Add** button
1. Click on the default name of the actor (_Actor1_) and change it to: _Customer actor_
1. Repeat to create _Manager actor_
1. Select the _Customer actor_ and click on **Set as initiator** button. This will add a flag on this actor to mark it as the one can start the process

   ![Add and rename actors, define initiator](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/add-rename-actors-set-initiator.gif)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

1. Select _Customer lane_ (click on the lane name)
1. Go to **General > Actors** and in the drop down list, select _Customer actor_
1. Do the same for the _Manager lane_ with the _Manager actor_

   ![Map actor to lane](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/map-actor-to-lane.gif)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

Actor are just identifiers. In order to define the actual user, we need to configure the actors and map them with groups, roles , users, etc of the organization. We will use the Bonita Acme test organization for this example:
1. In the Bonita Studio menu, click on the **Server > Configure** ![Configure button icon](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/configure.png)
1. Select _Employee actor_
1. Click on the **Groups...** button
1. Unselect _/acme_
1. Select _/acme/production/services_. We will use this group of users to act as support team in charge of answering claims. In the test organization, two users belong to this group: _mauro.zetticci_ and _thomas.wallis_. The manager of both users is: _michael.morrison_
1. Click on the **Finish** button

   ![Configure actor mapping for customer actor](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/configure-actor-mapping.gif)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

1. Select **Customer actor**
1. Click on the **Groups...** button
1. Select _/acme/hr_. We will use this group of users to act as customers who can submit claims. In the test organization, three users belong to this group: _walter.bates_, _helen.kelly_ and _april.sanchez_
1. Click on the **Finish** button
1. Select _Manager actor_
1. Click on the **Roles...** button
1. Select the _member_ role. All users in the test organization have this role. But this does not really matter as this actor mapping will be override later in our configuration
1. Click on the **Finish** button
1. Click on the **Finish** button to close the configuration window

At this stage, if you try to run the process, you will see that _walter.bates_ can no longer perform the task _Review and answer claim_. You'll have to logout from the Bonita Portal (click on **Walter Bates** in top right corner and select **Logout**) and log in with _mauro.zetticci_ or _thomas.wallis_ (password: _bpm_) to be able to view the task. And you need to log back in with _walter.bates_ account to be able to view the task that let you read the provided answer.

Currently the task _Read the answer and rate it_ is available to all users in the group _/acme/hr_, but it should only be available to the user who started the process (_walter.bates_). Similarly, the task _Deal with unsatisfied customer_ will be available to everyone when it should only be available to the manager of the user who completed the task _Review and answer claim_. To address this, we will configure actor filters:
1. Select the _Customer lane_
1. Go to **General > Actors**
1. Click on the **Set...** button next to actor filter
1. From the list, select _Initiator_
1. Click on the **Next** button
1. Set the name: _User who submit the claim_
1. Click on the **Finish** button

   ![Configure initiator actor filter on Customer lane](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/configure-initiator-actor-filter.gif)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

1. Select _Manager lane_
1. Follow the same steps but select the _user-manager_ actor filter
1. Set the name: _Manager of the user who provided answer_
1. Click on the **Next** button
1. Click on the pencil icon
1. Select **Script** and paste the following Groovy script (it will search for the id of the user who performed the task _Review and answer claim_):

   ``` groovy
   import org.bonitasoft.engine.bpm.flownode.ArchivedHumanTaskInstance
   import org.bonitasoft.engine.bpm.flownode.ArchivedHumanTaskInstanceSearchDescriptor
   import org.bonitasoft.engine.search.SearchOptionsBuilder
   import org.bonitasoft.engine.search.SearchResult

   def taskName = 'Review and answer claim'

   final SearchOptionsBuilder searchOptionsBuilder = new SearchOptionsBuilder(0, 1)
   .filter(ArchivedHumanTaskInstanceSearchDescriptor.PARENT_PROCESS_INSTANCE_ID, processInstanceId)
   .filter(ArchivedHumanTaskInstanceSearchDescriptor.NAME, taskName).filter(ArchivedHumanTaskInstanceSearchDescriptor.TERMINAL, true)

   SearchResult<ArchivedHumanTaskInstance> searchResult = apiAccessor.processAPI.searchArchivedHumanTasks(searchOptionsBuilder.done())

   final List<ArchivedHumanTaskInstance> tasks = searchResult.result

   tasks.first().executedBy
   ```

1. Click on **OK**
1. Click on **Finish**

   ![Configure user manager actor filter for manager lane](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/configure-user-manager-actor-filter.gif)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->


If you run the process again, only _walter.bates_ should have access to _Read the answer and rate it_ and only _michael.morrison_ should have access to _Deal with unsatisfied customer_ (as he is the manager of both users who can complete the task _Review and answer claim_).

Now we have a fully customized process that processes data and dispatches tasks to appropriate users. The [next step](configure-email-connector.md) will be to make this process interact with the outside world.

Commit message:

refactor (getting started tutorial): update getting started pages, update .gif, create new .gif and images and refactor design-application-page.md and create-application.md
---
- update applicationCreation.md to remove Enterprise edition mentions
- update configure-email-connector.md
- update define-who-can-do-what.md
- refactor design-application-page.md with the new Application descriptor editor
- refactor create-application.md

Update and add images and gif to fit with the new features

md/define-who-can-do-what.md, after:

# Define who can do what

Up to this point, when you execute the process you were acting as a single user (username: _walter.bates_, password: _bpm_) who can perform all the user tasks. In a scenario closer to a real life use case, there are different types of users: customers (who can submit claims), employees (who answer claims) and the manager of the user who provides the answer (who is needed to interact with unsatisfied customers).

To define "who can do what",  you will define the [actors](actors.md) who can perform a task or start a process and map them to the "real" users in the [organization](organization-overview.md).

The first step in the configuration of "who can do what" is to create [lanes](pools-and-lanes.md) within our pool. We already have one default lane for the employees. Let's add another one for the customer and one for the manager:
1. In Bonita Studio, from the palette on the left hand side of the diagram select the **lane** icon
1. Click inside the process pool to add the lane. Do this twice to have a total of three lanes
1. Select the employee lane and click on the down arrow icon to move it, so it is the middle lane

   ![Add and organize lanes](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/add-and-organize-lanes.gif)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

1. Select _Lane1_, go to the **General > Lane** tab, and rename it _Customer lane_
1. Select  _Lane2_, go to the **General > Lane** tab and rename it _Manager lane_
1. Select the start event _Submit claim_ and move it (via drag and drop) to the _Customer lane_. Do the same for the task _Read the answer and rate it_
1. Select the _Deal with unsatisfied customer_ task and move it to the _Manager lane_. Do the same with the end event _End client unsatisfied_

   ![Diagrams with lanes](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/diagrams-with-lanes.png)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

::: info
A lane is used to group together user tasks that should be done by the same set of users.
:::

Now we need to define "actors," one for each lane, and map them to the lane they belong to:
1. Select the pool
1. Go to **General > Actors**
1. Click on the **Add** button
1. Click on the default name of the actor (_Actor1_) and change it to: _Customer actor_
1. Repeat to create _Manager actor_
1. Select the _Customer actor_ and click on **Set as initiator** button. This will add a flag on this actor to mark it as the one can start the process

   ![Add and rename actors, define initiator](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/add-rename-actors-set-initiator.gif)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

1. Select _Customer lane_ (click on the lane name)
1. Go to **General > Actors** and in the drop down list, select _Customer actor_
1. Do the same for the _Manager lane_ with the _Manager actor_

   ![Map actor to lane](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/map-actor-to-lane.gif)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

Actor are just identifiers. In order to define the actual user, we need to configure the actors and map them with groups, roles , users, etc of the organization. We will use the Bonita Acme test organization for this example:
1. In the Bonita Studio menu, click on the **Server > Configure** ![Configure button icon](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/configure.png)
1. Select _Employee actor_
1. Click on the **Groups...** button
1. Unselect _/acme_
1. Select _/acme/production/services_. We will use this group of users to act as support team in charge of answering claims. In the test organization, two users belong to this group: _mauro.zetticci_ and _thomas.wallis_. The manager of both users is: _michael.morrison_
1. Click on the **Finish** button

   ![Configure actor mapping for customer actor](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/configure-actor-mapping.gif)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

1. Select **Customer actor**
1. Click on the **Groups...** button
1. Select _/acme/hr_. We will use this group of users to act as customers who can submit claims. In the test organization, three users belong to this group: _walter.bates_, _helen.kelly_ and _april.sanchez_
1. Click on the **Finish** button
1. Select _Manager actor_
1. Click on the **Roles...** button
1. Select the _member_ role. All users in the test organization have this role. But this does not really matter as this actor mapping will be override later in our configuration
1. Click on the **Finish** button
1. Click on the **Finish** button to close the configuration window

::: info
At this stage, if you try to run the process, you will see that _walter.bates_ can no longer perform the task _Review and answer claim_. You'll have to logout from the Bonita Portal (click on **Walter Bates** in top right corner and select **Logout**) and log in with _mauro.zetticci_ or _thomas.wallis_ (password: _bpm_) to be able to view the task. And you need to log back in with _walter.bates_ account to be able to view the task that let you read the provided answer.
:::

Currently the task _Read the answer and rate it_ is available to all users in the group _/acme/hr_, but it should only be available to the user who started the process (_walter.bates_). Similarly, the task _Deal with unsatisfied customer_ will be available to everyone when it should only be available to the manager of the user who completed the task _Review and answer claim_.  
To address this, we will configure [actor filters](actor-filtering.md).

::: info
The actor filter produces a list of users based on input information and internal logic. It completely overrides the actor configuration.  
An actor filter will be executed when the process reaches a step to which the filter is mapped.
:::

First we will configure the **initiator** actor filter:

1. Select the _Customer lane_
1. Go to **General > Actors**
1. Click on the **Set...** button next to actor filter
1. From the list, select _Initiator_
1. Click on the **Next** button
1. Set the name: _User who submit the claim_
1. Click on the **Finish** button

   ![Configure initiator actor filter on Customer lane](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/configure-initiator-actor-filter.gif)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

Now we will configure the **manager** actor filter:  

1. Select _Manager lane_
1. Follow the same steps but select the _user-manager_ actor filter
1. Set the name: _Manager of the user who provided answer_
1. Click on the **Next** button
1. Click on the pencil icon
1. Select **Script** and paste the following Groovy script (it will search for the id of the user who performed the task _Review and answer claim_):

   ``` groovy
   import org.bonitasoft.engine.bpm.flownode.ArchivedHumanTaskInstance
   import org.bonitasoft.engine.bpm.flownode.ArchivedHumanTaskInstanceSearchDescriptor
   import org.bonitasoft.engine.search.SearchOptionsBuilder
   import org.bonitasoft.engine.search.SearchResult

   def taskName = 'Review and answer claim'

   final SearchOptionsBuilder searchOptionsBuilder = new SearchOptionsBuilder(0, 1)
   .filter(ArchivedHumanTaskInstanceSearchDescriptor.PARENT_PROCESS_INSTANCE_ID, processInstanceId)
   .filter(ArchivedHumanTaskInstanceSearchDescriptor.NAME, taskName).filter(ArchivedHumanTaskInstanceSearchDescriptor.TERMINAL, true)

   SearchResult<ArchivedHumanTaskInstance> searchResult = apiAccessor.processAPI.searchArchivedHumanTasks(searchOptionsBuilder.done())

   final List<ArchivedHumanTaskInstance> tasks = searchResult.result

   tasks.first().executedBy
   ```

1. Click on **OK**
1. Click on **Finish**

   ![Configure user manager actor filter for manager lane](images/getting-started-tutorial/define-who-can-do-what/configure-user-manager-actor-filter.gif)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->


If you run the process again, only _mauro.zetticci_ should have access to _Read the answer and rate it_ and only _michael.morrison_ should have access to _Deal with unsatisfied customer_ (as he is the manager of both users who can complete the task _Review and answer claim_).

Now we have a fully customized process that processes data and dispatches tasks to appropriate users. The [next step](configure-email-connector.md) will be to make this process interact with the outside world.
