md/index.md, before:

#  Bonita Documentation

Learn how to use the Bonita Platform and all of its components.

Click on the **links** below to find useful information quickly, or [browse the whole content tree](taxonomy.md), or use the **table of contents** to go straight to the information you want to read.

<div class="col-md-4">
<div class="panel panel-default">
<div class="panel-heading">Highlights</div>
<div class="panel-body">
<div class="menu-block-wrapper">

* [Release notes ${varVersion}](release-notes.md)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [Business data management in the UI Designer](release-notes.md#data-management)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [Generation of the project documentation](release-notes.md#project-documentation)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [New BDM editor](release-notes.md#bdm-editor)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [Extensibility: new connector and actor filter archetype](release-notes.md#uipath-cloud)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [UiPath RPA connector, now in the Cloud](release-notes.md#connector-archetype)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
<!--{ul:.menu .nav}-->

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="col-md-4">
<div class="panel panel-default">
<div class="panel-heading">Getting started</div>
<div class="panel-body">
<div class="menu-block-wrapper">

* [Getting started tutorial](_getting-started-tutorial.md)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [Process diagram overview](diagram-overview.md)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [Key concepts](key-concepts.md)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [UI Designer overview](ui-designer-overview.md)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [Bonita Studio installation](bonita-bpm-studio-installation.md)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [Basic Bonita platform installation](tomcat-bundle.md)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [Create your first project with the Engine APIs and Maven](create-your-first-project-with-the-engine-apis-and-maven.md)<!--{li:.last .leaf}-->
<!--{ul:.menu .nav}-->

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="col-md-4">
<div class="panel panel-default">
<div class="panel-heading">Resources</div>
<div class="panel-body">
<div class="menu-block-wrapper menu-name-menu-quicklinks">

* [Download Bonita](https://www.bonitasoft.com/downloads)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [Community Q&A](https://community.bonitasoft.com/questions-and-answers)
* [BPMN standard](http://www.bpmn.org/)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [The Ultimate Guide to BPMN2](http://www.bonitasoft.com/for-you-to-read/bpm-library/ultimate-guide-bpmn)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [Best Practices for Continuous Integration with Bonita](http://www.bonitasoft.com/for-you-to-read/bpm-library/best-practices-continuous-integration-bonita-bpm)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [Javadoc](http://documentation.bonitasoft.com/javadoc/api/${varVersion}/index.html)<!--{li:.leaf .last}-->
<!--{ul:.menu .nav}-->

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>

Commit message:

add links to videos - 7.11 (#1416)
* Add link BTG videos
* Add video links
* add Tv icon
* add tv icon file to announce video links

md/index.md, after:

#  Bonita Documentation

Learn how to use the Bonita Platform and all of its components.

::: info
![videos](images/tv.png)  Discover what is new in Bonita 7.11 thanks to these short videos in [English](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLvvoQatxaHOOsAGuLQs2ObgX3JgXDwYaW), [French](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLvvoQatxaHONj4o8wmnPEqYml7dnzA9NU), or [Spanish](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLvvoQatxaHOMNTj22Nh_3KEu4ln65EPpy)!
:::

Click on the **links** below to find useful information quickly, or [browse the whole content tree](taxonomy.md), or use the **table of contents** to go straight to the information you want to read.

<div class="col-md-4">
<div class="panel panel-default">
<div class="panel-heading">Highlights</div>
<div class="panel-body">
<div class="menu-block-wrapper">

* [Release notes ${varVersion}](release-notes.md)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [Business data management in the UI Designer](release-notes.md#data-management)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [Generation of the project documentation](release-notes.md#project-documentation)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [New BDM editor](release-notes.md#bdm-editor)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [Extensibility: new connector and actor filter archetype](release-notes.md#uipath-cloud)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [UiPath RPA connector, now in the Cloud](release-notes.md#connector-archetype)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
<!--{ul:.menu .nav}-->

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="col-md-4">
<div class="panel panel-default">
<div class="panel-heading">Getting started</div>
<div class="panel-body">
<div class="menu-block-wrapper">

* [Getting started tutorial](_getting-started-tutorial.md)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [Process diagram overview](diagram-overview.md)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [Key concepts](key-concepts.md)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [UI Designer overview](ui-designer-overview.md)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [Bonita Studio installation](bonita-bpm-studio-installation.md)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [Basic Bonita platform installation](tomcat-bundle.md)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [Create your first project with the Engine APIs and Maven](create-your-first-project-with-the-engine-apis-and-maven.md)<!--{li:.last .leaf}-->
<!--{ul:.menu .nav}-->

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="col-md-4">
<div class="panel panel-default">
<div class="panel-heading">Resources</div>
<div class="panel-body">
<div class="menu-block-wrapper menu-name-menu-quicklinks">

* [Download Bonita](https://www.bonitasoft.com/downloads)<!--{li:.first .leaf}-->
* [Community Q&A](https://community.bonitasoft.com/questions-and-answers)
* [BPMN standard](http://www.bpmn.org/)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [The Ultimate Guide to BPMN2](http://www.bonitasoft.com/for-you-to-read/bpm-library/ultimate-guide-bpmn)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [Best Practices for Continuous Integration with Bonita](http://www.bonitasoft.com/for-you-to-read/bpm-library/best-practices-continuous-integration-bonita-bpm)<!--{li:.leaf}-->
* [Javadoc](http://documentation.bonitasoft.com/javadoc/api/${varVersion}/index.html)<!--{li:.leaf .last}-->
<!--{ul:.menu .nav}-->

</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
