md/uipath.md, before:


# UiPath

This page explains how to configure the UiPath connectors in Bonita Studio. UiPath is a global software company that develops a platform for robotic process automation (RPA). 
All connectors share common authentication settings, and have other specific settings.

## UiPath - Authentication settings

Depending on the type of your UiPath platform (On-premise / Cloud), the authentication settings are different.

### On-premise authentication

|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|URL|UiPath Orchestrator endpoint url|string|https://demo.uipath.com/|
|Tenant name|Target tenant on the orchestrator|string|Default|
|Username or Email| |string| |
|Password| |password| |

### Cloud authentication

Details concerning UiPath cloud authentication can be found on the [UiPath documentation](https://docs.uipath.com/orchestrator/reference#consuming-cloud-api)

|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|Account logical name|Your unique site URL|string|bonitoyeiuiu|
|Tenant logical name|The selected service's logical name|string|BonitasoftDq96g314984|
|User key| Unique key to generate login tokens |string| pb9Mm0s5xc-upnDIr3v1Uey9ZlCjwXIE1bO9i2LN7gQpT |
|Client ID| Specific to the Orchestrator application itself |string| 8DEv1AMNXczW3y4U15LL3jYf62jK93n5 |

## UiPath - Add queue item

Add an item in a specific UiPath queue

### Queue item definition

Specify information for the new queue item


|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|Queue name|The name of the queue into which the item will be added.|string| |
|Reference|An optional, user-specified value for queue item identification (128 characters max).|string| |
|Priority|Sets the processing importance for a given item.|choice| High,Normal,Low|
|Defer date|The earliest date and time (ISO-8601 format) at which the item is available for processing. If empty the item can be processed as soon as possible.|string| |
|Due date|The latest date and time (ISO-8601 format) at which the item should be processed. If empty the item can be processed at any given time.|string| |

### Specific content

Key/value pairs containing custom data (complex type will be serialized in a JSON string)


|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|queueContent|Key,Value|array| |

## UiPath - Get job

Get a UiPath Job status

### Connector settings

Set connection and authentication connector parameters.


|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|Job ID|The ID of the job to request.|string| |

## UiPath - Start jobs

Start UiPath jobs

### Job configuration

Configure job parameters. 


|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|Process name|The UiPath process name to execute|string| |
|Process version|If empty, current process release will be used.|string| |
|Strategy|States which robots from the environment are being run by the process.|choice| All,Specific,JobsCount|
|Robot names (if Specific strategy)| |list| |
|Jobs count (if JobsCount strategy)|Number of pending jobs to be created in the environment, for the current process. This number must be greater than 0 only if the start strategy is JobsCount. |integer| |

### Input parameters

Input parameters to be passed to job execution.


|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|inputArguments|Key,Value|array| |

Commit message:

CWI - adding intro to uipath connector page.md (#1305)
Co-authored-by: Adrien <adrien.lachambre@bonitasoft.com>

md/uipath.md, after:


# UiPath

This page explains how to configure the UiPath connectors in Bonita Studio. UiPath is a global software company that develops a platform for robotic process automation (RPA).  
RPA is a complementary technology to BPM that handles high-volume, repeatable tasks that previously required humans to perform. RPA technology consists of software robots that mimic a human. Processes can leverage RPA technology when needed to gain efficiency and focus human on added value tasks. [Combining BPM and RPA](https://www.bonitasoft.com/robotic-process-automation) allows end to end automation and avoids what is called "islands of automation" by adding the orchestration capacity of a BPM platform to the RPA approach.  

All connectors share common authentication settings, and have other specific settings.

## UiPath - Authentication settings

Depending on the type of your UiPath platform (On-premise / Cloud), the authentication settings are different.

### On-premise authentication

|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|URL|UiPath Orchestrator endpoint url|string|https://demo.uipath.com/|
|Tenant name|Target tenant on the orchestrator|string|Default|
|Username or Email| |string| |
|Password| |password| |

### Cloud authentication

Details concerning UiPath cloud authentication can be found on the [UiPath documentation](https://docs.uipath.com/orchestrator/reference#consuming-cloud-api)

|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|Account logical name|Your unique site URL|string|bonitoyeiuiu|
|Tenant logical name|The selected service's logical name|string|BonitasoftDq96g314984|
|User key| Unique key to generate login tokens |string| pb9Mm0s5xc-upnDIr3v1Uey9ZlCjwXIE1bO9i2LN7gQpT |
|Client ID| Specific to the Orchestrator application itself |string| 8DEv1AMNXczW3y4U15LL3jYf62jK93n5 |

## UiPath - Add queue item

Add an item in a specific UiPath queue

### Queue item definition

Specify information for the new queue item


|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|Queue name|The name of the queue into which the item will be added.|string| |
|Reference|An optional, user-specified value for queue item identification (128 characters max).|string| |
|Priority|Sets the processing importance for a given item.|choice| High,Normal,Low|
|Defer date|The earliest date and time (ISO-8601 format) at which the item is available for processing. If empty the item can be processed as soon as possible.|string| |
|Due date|The latest date and time (ISO-8601 format) at which the item should be processed. If empty the item can be processed at any given time.|string| |

### Specific content

Key/value pairs containing custom data (complex type will be serialized in a JSON string)


|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|queueContent|Key,Value|array| |

## UiPath - Get job

Get a UiPath Job status

### Connector settings

Set connection and authentication connector parameters.


|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|Job ID|The ID of the job to request.|string| |

## UiPath - Start jobs

Start UiPath jobs

### Job configuration

Configure job parameters. 


|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|Process name|The UiPath process name to execute|string| |
|Process version|If empty, current process release will be used.|string| |
|Strategy|States which robots from the environment are being run by the process.|choice| All,Specific,JobsCount|
|Robot names (if Specific strategy)| |list| |
|Jobs count (if JobsCount strategy)|Number of pending jobs to be created in the environment, for the current process. This number must be greater than 0 only if the start strategy is JobsCount. |integer| |

### Input parameters

Input parameters to be passed to job execution.


|Name|Description|Type|Example|
|---|---|---|---|
|inputArguments|Key,Value|array| |
