md/user-task-list.md, before:

# User task list

The user task list page provides information such as: user's tasks, tasks to do, already done tasks related to different processes.

## Overview

Starting with Bonita 7.3, users benefit from a configurable task list, to manage tasks involving human actors from all processes in a more efficient fashion.
This page is also made available as a custom page in Bonita Portal > Resources, to be used in any [application](applications.md) or [custom profiles](custom-profiles.md), for users types of profiles.

Here are the values of the user task list:

- Default Master/Detail design pattern, to view list and form in the same screen
- _Panel expand_ feature, to display wide forms in a large modal window

![](images/tasklist-elements.png)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->
![](images/tasklist-popup.png)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

- List settings: number of tasks in a page, choice of columns, columns ordering
- Easy access to case information, one tab away from the form. This case information is the case overview page, that the development team can customize
- Easy access to case comments, also one tab away from the form or case information

![](images/tasklist-settings-and-tabs.png)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

- Alternate "full width" list, with task information displayed in a large modal window

![](images/tasklist-fullpage.png)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

This list also leverages two legacy features (prior to Bonita 7.3.0):
- Dynamic task display name, for efficient task identification (insert case information in task name)
- Word-based search, for efficient task name search (search for any word in the task name)

To know more about how to use both features, go to [How to create unique task names for user task list](optimize-user-tasklist.md).

The task list also contains a **Done tasks** filter, for the user to check if the task has been completed properly.

::: info
**Note:** Since Bonita 7.3.0, creating subtasks is no longer possible. However, if subtasks have been created in a process instance in an old Bonita version, and if the Bonita Platform has been migrated to a later version while the case was open, then the subtasks will still be visible to the users assigned, and users will still be able to complete them.
:::

Commit message:

update(usertasklist): add it's same in app
* in the description, explain that it is the same in Bonita application with a link to app overview

md/user-task-list.md, after:

# User task list

This page explains what a user with the User profile in Bonita Portal or in the [Bonita User Application](user-application-overview.md) can see and do about tasks.
_Users_ can view lists of tasks to do, tasks they are assigned to, tasks thay have done related to different processes, take and release tasks, and do tasks.

## Overview

Starting with Bonita 7.3, users benefit from a configurable task list, to manage tasks involving human actors from all processes in a more efficient fashion.
This page is also made available as a custom page in Bonita Portal > Resources, to be used in any [application](applications.md) or [custom profiles](custom-profiles.md), for users types of profiles.

Here are the values of the user task list:

- Default Master/Detail design pattern, to view list and form in the same screen
- _Panel expand_ feature, to display wide forms in a large modal window

![](images/tasklist-elements.png)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->
![](images/tasklist-popup.png)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

- List settings: number of tasks in a page, choice of columns, columns ordering
- Easy access to case information, one tab away from the form. This case information is the case overview page, that the development team can customize
- Easy access to case comments, also one tab away from the form or case information

![](images/tasklist-settings-and-tabs.png)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

- Alternate "full width" list, with task information displayed in a large modal window

![](images/tasklist-fullpage.png)<!--{.img-responsive .img-thumbnail}-->

This list also leverages two legacy features (prior to Bonita 7.3.0):
- Dynamic task display name, for efficient task identification (insert case information in task name)
- Word-based search, for efficient task name search (search for any word in the task name)

To know more about how to use both features, go to [How to create unique task names for user task list](optimize-user-tasklist.md).

The task list also contains a **Done tasks** filter, for the user to check if the task has been completed properly.

::: info
**Note:** Since Bonita 7.3.0, creating subtasks is no longer possible. However, if subtasks have been created in a process instance in an old Bonita version, and if the Bonita Platform has been migrated to a later version while the case was open, then the subtasks will still be visible to the users assigned, and users will still be able to complete them.
:::
