modules/getting-started/pages/getting-started-index.adoc, before:

= Getting Started Tutorial
:description: To get started with Bonita, learn how to create your first complete living application.
:page-aliases: ROOT:getting-started-index.adoc, ROOT:tutorial-overview.adoc

{description}

In this BPM-type _Claim management_ example, the application offers customized user interfaces to end-users while standardized processes run in the background, to deliver the full potential of Bonita. +
You will then be able to adapt and extend this example to fit your own needs.

[NOTE]
====
If you have any problems while working through this tutorial, you can https://community.bonitasoft.com/questions-and-answers[ask for help on the Bonita Community web site] and/or open an issue on the Bonita https://bonita.atlassian.net/projects/BBPMC/issues[Community issue tracker].
====

[.card-section]
== Prerequisite

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:bonita-studio-download-installation.adoc[[.card-title]#Bonita Studio Installation# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Bonita's principal tool to create the main elements of all your projects]#]
--

[.card-section]
== The 9-step hands-on journey to your first Bonita Living Application

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:draw-bpmn-diagram.adoc[[.card-title]#Draw a BPMN diagram# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Process automation always starts with a process]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:define-business-data-model.adoc[[.card-title]#Define a Business Data Model (BDM)# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[The data model describes business data handled by processes]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:declare-business-variables.adoc[[.card-title]#Declare business variables# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Variables are the link between business data and processes]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:declare-contracts.adoc[[.card-title]#Declare contracts# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Contracts are interfaces allowing processes and UI to interact]#]

--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:create-web-user-interfaces.adoc[[.card-title]#Create forms# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Forms use data to feed processes through contracts]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:define-who-can-do-what.adoc[[.card-title]#Define who can do what# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Actors allow the mapping of organization entities to human tasks]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:configure-email-connector.adoc[[.card-title]#Configure an email connector# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Most of the processes need email notifications, right?]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:design-application-page.adoc[[.card-title]#Design an application page# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Pages can display more generic information than tasks forms]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:create-application.adoc[[.card-title]#Create an application# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Bind all elements together to build a rich, valuable end-user experience]#]
--

Commit message:

update(getting started): add goals&download exple (#1944)
* add goals of the tutorial
* add the fact that it can also be downloaded from the studio
* add steps to download it

modules/getting-started/pages/getting-started-index.adoc, after:

= Getting Started Tutorial
:description: To get started with Bonita, learn how to create your first application, with all the main elements it is made of.
:page-aliases: ROOT:getting-started-index.adoc, ROOT:tutorial-overview.adoc

{description}

This _Claim management_ example demonstrates an application that offers customized user interfaces to end-users while structured processes run in the background, to deliver the full potential of Bonita. +

You will then be able to adapt and extend this example to fit your own needs.

[NOTE]
====

* If you have any problems while working through this tutorial, you can https://community.bonitasoft.com/questions-and-answers[ask for help on the Bonita Community web site] and/or open an issue on the Bonita https://bonita.atlassian.net/projects/BBPMC/issues[Community issue tracker].
* This example has also been implemented and packaged to be downloaded from Bonita Studio's Welcome page (see below). +
This can be useful to compare your creations with the already implemented example, or just to learn by watching how it has been implemented. +
====

To download the example from Bonita Studio:

. Open Bonita Studio (see the prerequisite below)
. On the Welcome page, in the _Resources_ tile at the bottom right, click on *Import the Getting Started example*
. In the _Import .bos archive_ modal window that opens, you can see that the example will be imported in a new Bonita project by default
. Click on the *Details* button, and learn about the main elements it contains by opening all sections of the _Archive_ column 
. Now click on the *Extensions* button, and learn about the extensions already created and packaged with the project
(Don't worry: you will learn more about those "elements" and "extensions" while going through the tutorial)
. Click on the "Import" button to finalize the importation operation. You get a list of the dependencies imported
. Click on the "Deploy" button to be able to view the user interfaces in the embedded Bonita Runtime
. Let all elements of the list checked and click on "Deploy" again
. Click on the "Close" button to stay in Bonita Studio and start following the tutorial. 
. You can find the whole content of the Getting Started project in the "Explorer" tab on the left. Just click on the arrow to expand it

[.card-section]
== Prerequisite

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:bonita-studio-download-installation.adoc[[.card-title]#Bonita Studio Installation# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Bonita's principal tool to create the main elements of your projects]#]
--

[.card-section]
== The 9-step hands-on journey to your first Bonita Application

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:draw-bpmn-diagram.adoc[[.card-title]#Draw a BPMN diagram# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Process automation always starts with a process]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:define-business-data-model.adoc[[.card-title]#Define a Business Data Model (BDM)# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[The data model describes business data handled by processes]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:declare-business-variables.adoc[[.card-title]#Declare business variables# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Variables are the link between business data and processes]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:declare-contracts.adoc[[.card-title]#Declare contracts# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Contracts are interfaces allowing processes and UI to interact]#]

--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:create-web-user-interfaces.adoc[[.card-title]#Create forms# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Forms use data to feed processes through contracts]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:define-who-can-do-what.adoc[[.card-title]#Define who can do what# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Actors allow the mapping of organization entities to human tasks]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:configure-email-connector.adoc[[.card-title]#Configure an email connector# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Most of the processes need email notifications, right?]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:design-application-page.adoc[[.card-title]#Design an application page# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Pages can display more business information than tasks forms]#]
--

[.card.card-index]
--
xref:ROOT:create-application.adoc[[.card-title]#Create an application# [.card-body.card-content-overflow]#pass:q[Bind all elements together to build a rich, valuable end-user experience]#]
--
