modules/api/pages/platform-api.adoc, before:

= Platform API
:page-aliases: ROOT:platform-api.adoc
:description: The Platform REST API allows to manage Bonita Platform and platform level resources.

{description}

== Platform API Login and Logout

The Platform API resources require a platform session.
In order to get one, log in as the platform administrator using the platform login service. The username and password are in bonita-platform-community-custom.properties file.

* *URL*
`/platformloginservice`
* *Method*
`POST`
* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Request parameters*:

----
username=platformAdmin
password=platform
----

In order to logout use the platform logout service as follow:

* *URL*
`/platformlogoutservice`
* *Method*
`POST`
* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200

== Platform

[discrete]
==== Description

Handle the platform. This requires a platform session. Log in using the platform login service.

[discrete]
==== Identifier

_unusedid_, the id is not used because there is only one platform

[discrete]
==== Representation

[source,json]
----
{
  "createdBy":"_the user name of the platform administrator_",
  "created":"_the creation date_",
  "initialVersion":"_the version in which the platform was created_",
  "state":"_can be STARTED or STOPPED_",
  "previousVersion":"_the previous version the platform was in or empty if there is none_",
  "version":"_the current version of the platform_"
}
----

[discrete]
==== Methods

The methods used for this resource are:

* GET - get the current platform
* POST - create the platform
* PUT - start or stop the platform
* DELETE - destroy the platform

[discrete]
==== Get the platform

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/platform/unusedid`
* *Method* +
`GET`
* *Success Response* +
The platform in JSON
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "createdBy":"platformAdmin",
  "created":"2014-12-04 15:46:46.065",
  "initialVersion":"6.4.0",
  "state":"STARTED",
  "previousVersion":"",
  "version":"6.4.0"
}
----

[discrete]
==== Start or stop the platform

Start or stop the current node, that is, start or stop all services of the current JVM.

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/platform/unusedid`
* *Method* +
`PUT`
* *Request Payload* +
Start current node :
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "state":"stop"
}
----
+
Stop current node :
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "state":"start"
}
----

* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200

== Tenant

[WARNING]
====
This feature was deprecated in Bonita 2021.1. 
====

[NOTE]
====
Important note:  Bonita Enterprise customers need a contractual agreement to create additional tenants. For any new tenant creation, any general or contractual question related to Multi-tenancy, please contact your customer success representative.
====


[discrete]
==== Description

Handle the tenants (Enterprise and Performance editions only). This requires a platform session. Log in using the platform login service.

[discrete]
==== Identifier

The id of the tenant

[discrete]
==== Representation

[source,json]
----
{
  "id":"_id of the tenant_",
  "creation":"_the creation date_",
  "icon":"_the path of the icon_",
  "description":"_the description_",
  "name":"_the name of the tenant_",
  "state":"_ACTIVATED or DEACTIVATED_"
}
----

[discrete]
==== Methods

The methods used for this resource are:

* GET - get or search tenants
* POST - create a tenant
* PUT - update the tenant and activate or deactivate it
* DELETE - delete a tenant

[discrete]
==== Get a tenant

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/tenant/:id`
* *Method* +
`GET`
* *Success Response* +
The platform in JSON
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "id":"1",
  "creation":"2014-12-04 15:46:46.256",
  "icon":"/default.png",
  "username":"",
  "description":"Default tenant",
  "name":"default",
  "state":"ACTIVATED",
  "password":""
}
----

[discrete]
==== Create a tenant

Create a new tenant on the platform.

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/tenant`
* *Method* +
`POST`
* *Request Payload* +
tenant parameters as JSON
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "name":"MyTenant",
  "description":"My tenant",
  "username":"john",
  "password":"bpm"
}
----

* *Success Response* +
the created tenant as JSON
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "password":"",
  "name":"MyTenant",
  "icon":"/default.png",
  "description":"My tenant",
  "id":"102",
  "state":"DEACTIVATED",
  "creation":"2014-12-04 15:30:19.930",
  "username":""
}
----

[discrete]
==== Update a tenant

Attributes of the tenant can be changed, and it can be activated or deactivated at the same time.

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/tenant/id`
* *Method* +
`PUT`
* *Request Payload* +
Attributes to change as JSON
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "description":"modified description for the tenant",
  "state":"DEACTIVATED"
}
----

* *Success Response* +
The updated tenant as JSON
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "password":"",
  "name":"MyTenant",
  "icon":"/default.png",
  "description":"modified description for the tenant",
  "id":"102",
  "state":"DEACTIVATED",
  "creation":"2014-12-04 15:30:19.930",
  "username":""
}
----

[discrete]
==== Delete a tenant

A tenant can only be deleted if it is in DEACTIVATED state.

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/tenant/id`
* *Method* +
`DELETE`
* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200

[#license]

== License

[discrete]
==== Description

Handle the license information. This requires a platform session. Log in using the platform login service.

This Web REST API is available in Subscription editions only, since version 7.1.

[discrete]
==== Identifier

empty

[discrete]
==== Representation

[source,json]
----
{
  "licenseStartDate": date with format "yyyy-MM-dd" - first day (included) of license file validity,
  "duration": integer - number of days for license file validity,
  "licenseExpirationDate": date with format "yyyy-MM-dd" - last day (included) of license file validity,
  "numberOfCPUCores": integer - number of CPUs
  "edition": name of the Bonita edition enabled by the license
  "licenseMode": available mode enabled by the license
  "requestKey": request key to use to generate a new license on the customer portal

  If you have a subscription that specifies case-counter licensing, additional fields are present:

  "subscriptionStartPeriod": date with format "yyyy-MM-dd" - first day (included) of current period for number of cases provisioned,
  "subscriptionEndPeriod": date with format "yyyy-MM-dd" - last day (included) of current period for number of cases provisioned,
  "caseCounterLimit": integer - number of cases provisioned for period between "subscriptionStartPeriod" and "subscriptionEndPeriod",
  "caseCounter": integer - number of consumed cases for period between "subscriptionStartPeriod" and "subscriptionEndPeriod"
}
----

[discrete]
==== Methods

The methods used for this resource are:

* GET - get subscription license information

[discrete]
==== Get subscription license information

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/license`
* *Method* +
`GET`
* *Success Response* +
The license information in JSON
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "licenseStartDate": "2015-08-31",
  "duration": 30,
  "licenseExpirationDate": "2015-09-30",
  "edition": "Performance",
  "licenseMode": "development",
  "requestKey": "(WkrNiwnog4M+qGKUdl8D4yU6l2LyIlqNm3SEZJgenU/c=)",
  "subscriptionStartPeriod": "2015-08-30",
  "subscriptionEndPeriod": "2016-08-29",
  "caseCounterLimit": 100000,
  "caseCounter": 0,
  "numberOfCPUCores": 4
}
----

Commit message:

chore(PlatformApi): Add deprecated warnings to the platform api page: (#1906)
Closes [RUNTIME-796](https://bonitasoft.atlassian.net/browse/RUNTIME-796)

modules/api/pages/platform-api.adoc, after:

= Platform API
:page-aliases: ROOT:platform-api.adoc
:description: The Platform REST API allows to manage Bonita Platform and platform level resources.

{description}

== Platform API Login and Logout

The Platform API resources require a platform session.
In order to get one, log in as the platform administrator using the platform login service. The username and password are in bonita-platform-community-custom.properties file.

* *URL*
`/platformloginservice`
* *Method*
`POST`
* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Request parameters*:

----
username=platformAdmin
password=platform
----

In order to logout use the platform logout service as follow:

* *URL*
`/platformlogoutservice`
* *Method*
`POST`
* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200

== Platform

[discrete]
==== Description

Handle the platform. This requires a platform session. Log in using the platform login service.

[discrete]
==== Identifier

_unusedid_, the id is not used because there is only one platform

[discrete]
==== Representation

[source,json]
----
{
  "createdBy":"_the user name of the platform administrator_",
  "created":"_the creation date_",
  "initialVersion":"_the version in which the platform was created_",
  "state":"_can be STARTED or STOPPED_",
  "previousVersion":"_the previous version the platform was in or empty if there is none_",
  "version":"_the current version of the platform_"
}
----

[discrete]
==== Methods

The methods used for this resource are:

* GET - get the current platform
* POST - create the platform
* PUT - start or stop the platform
* DELETE - destroy the platform

[discrete]
==== Get the platform

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/platform/unusedid`
* *Method* +
`GET`
* *Success Response* +
The platform in JSON
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "createdBy":"platformAdmin",
  "created":"2014-12-04 15:46:46.065",
  "initialVersion":"6.4.0",
  "state":"STARTED",
  "previousVersion":"",
  "version":"6.4.0"
}
----

[discrete]
==== Start or stop the platform

Start or stop the current node, that is, start or stop all services of the current JVM.

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/platform/unusedid`
* *Method* +
`PUT`
* *Request Payload* +
Start current node :
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "state":"stop"
}
----
+
Stop current node :
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "state":"start"
}
----

* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200

== Tenant

[WARNING]
====
This feature was deprecated in Bonita 2021.1. 
====

[NOTE]
====
Important note:  Bonita Enterprise customers need a contractual agreement to create additional tenants. For any new tenant creation, any general or contractual question related to Multi-tenancy, please contact your customer success representative.
====


[discrete]
==== Description

Handle the tenants (Enterprise and Performance editions only). This requires a platform session. Log in using the platform login service.

[discrete]
==== Identifier

The id of the tenant

[discrete]
==== Representation

[source,json]
----
{
  "id":"_id of the tenant_",
  "creation":"_the creation date_",
  "icon":"_the path of the icon_",
  "description":"_the description_",
  "name":"_the name of the tenant_",
  "state":"_ACTIVATED or DEACTIVATED_"
}
----

[discrete]
==== Methods

The methods used for this resource are:

* GET - get or search tenants
* POST - create a tenant
* PUT - update the tenant and activate or deactivate it
* DELETE - delete a tenant

[discrete]
==== Get a tenant

[WARNING]
====
This method was deprecated in Bonita 2021.1.
====

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/tenant/:id`
* *Method* +
`GET`
* *Success Response* +
The platform in JSON
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "id":"1",
  "creation":"2014-12-04 15:46:46.256",
  "icon":"/default.png",
  "username":"",
  "description":"Default tenant",
  "name":"default",
  "state":"ACTIVATED",
  "password":""
}
----

[discrete]
==== Create a tenant

[WARNING]
====
This method was deprecated in Bonita 2021.1.
====

Create a new tenant on the platform.

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/tenant`
* *Method* +
`POST`
* *Request Payload* +
tenant parameters as JSON
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "name":"MyTenant",
  "description":"My tenant",
  "username":"john",
  "password":"bpm"
}
----

* *Success Response* +
the created tenant as JSON
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "password":"",
  "name":"MyTenant",
  "icon":"/default.png",
  "description":"My tenant",
  "id":"102",
  "state":"DEACTIVATED",
  "creation":"2014-12-04 15:30:19.930",
  "username":""
}
----

[discrete]
==== Update a tenant

[WARNING]
====
This method was deprecated in Bonita 2021.1.
====

Attributes of the tenant can be changed, and it can be activated or deactivated at the same time.

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/tenant/id`
* *Method* +
`PUT`
* *Request Payload* +
Attributes to change as JSON
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "description":"modified description for the tenant",
  "state":"DEACTIVATED"
}
----

* *Success Response* +
The updated tenant as JSON
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "password":"",
  "name":"MyTenant",
  "icon":"/default.png",
  "description":"modified description for the tenant",
  "id":"102",
  "state":"DEACTIVATED",
  "creation":"2014-12-04 15:30:19.930",
  "username":""
}
----

[discrete]
==== Delete a tenant

[WARNING]
====
This method was deprecated in Bonita 2021.1.
====

A tenant can only be deleted if it is in DEACTIVATED state.

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/tenant/id`
* *Method* +
`DELETE`
* *Success Response*
 ** *Code*: 200

[#license]

== License

[discrete]
==== Description

Handle the license information. This requires a platform session. Log in using the platform login service.

This Web REST API is available in Subscription editions only, since version 7.1.

[discrete]
==== Identifier

empty

[discrete]
==== Representation

[source,json]
----
{
  "licenseStartDate": date with format "yyyy-MM-dd" - first day (included) of license file validity,
  "duration": integer - number of days for license file validity,
  "licenseExpirationDate": date with format "yyyy-MM-dd" - last day (included) of license file validity,
  "numberOfCPUCores": integer - number of CPUs
  "edition": name of the Bonita edition enabled by the license
  "licenseMode": available mode enabled by the license
  "requestKey": request key to use to generate a new license on the customer portal

  If you have a subscription that specifies case-counter licensing, additional fields are present:

  "subscriptionStartPeriod": date with format "yyyy-MM-dd" - first day (included) of current period for number of cases provisioned,
  "subscriptionEndPeriod": date with format "yyyy-MM-dd" - last day (included) of current period for number of cases provisioned,
  "caseCounterLimit": integer - number of cases provisioned for period between "subscriptionStartPeriod" and "subscriptionEndPeriod",
  "caseCounter": integer - number of consumed cases for period between "subscriptionStartPeriod" and "subscriptionEndPeriod"
}
----

[discrete]
==== Methods

The methods used for this resource are:

* GET - get subscription license information

[discrete]
==== Get subscription license information

* *URL* +
`/API/platform/license`
* *Method* +
`GET`
* *Success Response* +
The license information in JSON
 ** *Code*: 200
 ** *Payload*:
+
[source,json]
----
{
  "licenseStartDate": "2015-08-31",
  "duration": 30,
  "licenseExpirationDate": "2015-09-30",
  "edition": "Performance",
  "licenseMode": "development",
  "requestKey": "(WkrNiwnog4M+qGKUdl8D4yU6l2LyIlqNm3SEZJgenU/c=)",
  "subscriptionStartPeriod": "2015-08-30",
  "subscriptionEndPeriod": "2016-08-29",
  "caseCounterLimit": 100000,
  "caseCounter": 0,
  "numberOfCPUCores": 4
}
----
