modules/setup-dev-environment/pages/migrate-a-svn-repository-to-github.adoc, before:

= How to migrate a SVN repository to Github
:description: [NOTE]

[NOTE]
====

For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only.
====

This page explains how to migrate a *SVN* repository and its history to a *Git* repository on https://github.com/[GitHub].

== Prerequistes

* Ubuntu
* awk : `sudo apt-get install awk`
* subversion: `sudo apt-get install subversion`
* git: `sudo apt-get install git` (tested with git 2.17.1)
* https://git-scm.com/docs/git-svn[git-svn]: `sudo apt-get install git-svn`

== Migration steps

=== Retrieve the list of all Subversion committers

A first step will be to retrieve the committers list of the repository. +
Checkout a copy of the repository to migrate in a location of your choice: `svn checkout <svn-repository-url>` +
Then run the following command from the locally checkouted repository to retrieve the svn committers: +
`+svn log -q | awk -F '|' '/^r/ {sub("^ ", "", $2); sub(" $", "", $2); print $2" = "$2" <"$2">"}' | sort -u > authors-transform.txt+`

In Git, the commit author needs to have a name and email listed. So update `authors-transform.txt` accordingly.

eg: `wbates = wbates <wbates>` into `wbates = Walter Bates <wbates@acme.org>`

=== Clone the Subversion repository using git-svn

`git svn clone <svn-repository-url>/<bonita-repo-name> --no-metadata --stdlayout --no-minimize-url -A authors-transform.txt ~/temp`

This will do the standard git-svn transformation (using the authors-transform.txt file you created in the step above) and place the git repository in the `~/temp` folder inside your home directory. +
Note: `<bonita-repo-name>` should have `trunk`, `branches`, `tags` children folder.

=== Create a .gitignore

Add a .gitignore in `~/temp` with the following content

[source,ini]
----
bin
.classpath
/src-providedGroovy
/template
/h2_database
/process_configurations
/META-INF
.settings
target/
/build.properties

#provided web widgets
/web_widgets/pb*/

#web component preferenes
/web_widgets/.metadata
/web_fragments/.metadata
/web_page/.metadata
/web_page/*/js
/web_fragments/*/*.js
/web_widgets/*/*.js

#bdm jar dependency is regenerate from bom.xml file
/lib/bdm-client-pojo.jar

#only used as user preferences
/database_connectors_properties
----

Double check that all files listed in the .gitignore are not present in `~/temp` folder. +
Remove them otherwise.

Then add all the changes and commit:
`git add -A` +
`git commit -m 'Add .gitignore.'`

=== Push repository to GitHub

Create a new empty repository on GitHub. +
Configure the upstream +
`git remote add origin <github-repo-url>` +
`git push --set-upstream origin master`

You can now clone this git repository in Bonita Studio.

== References

For a more advanced migration read the following article

* https://john.albin.net/git/convert-subversion-to-git

Commit message:

feat(aliases): add aliases for best setup dev env module (#1777)

modules/setup-dev-environment/pages/migrate-a-svn-repository-to-github.adoc, after:

= How to migrate a SVN repository to Github
:page-aliases: ROOT:migrate-a-svn-repository-to-github.adoc
:description: This page explains how to migrate a SVN repository and its history to a Git repository.

[NOTE]
====
For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only.
====

This page explains how to migrate a *SVN* repository and its history to a *Git* repository on https://github.com/[GitHub].

== Prerequistes

* Ubuntu
* awk : `sudo apt-get install awk`
* subversion: `sudo apt-get install subversion`
* git: `sudo apt-get install git` (tested with git 2.17.1)
* https://git-scm.com/docs/git-svn[git-svn]: `sudo apt-get install git-svn`

== Migration steps

=== Retrieve the list of all Subversion committers

A first step will be to retrieve the committers list of the repository. +
Checkout a copy of the repository to migrate in a location of your choice: `svn checkout <svn-repository-url>` +
Then run the following command from the locally checkouted repository to retrieve the svn committers: +
`+svn log -q | awk -F '|' '/^r/ {sub("^ ", "", $2); sub(" $", "", $2); print $2" = "$2" <"$2">"}' | sort -u > authors-transform.txt+`

In Git, the commit author needs to have a name and email listed. So update `authors-transform.txt` accordingly.

eg: `wbates = wbates <wbates>` into `wbates = Walter Bates <wbates@acme.org>`

=== Clone the Subversion repository using git-svn

`git svn clone <svn-repository-url>/<bonita-repo-name> --no-metadata --stdlayout --no-minimize-url -A authors-transform.txt ~/temp`

This will do the standard git-svn transformation (using the authors-transform.txt file you created in the step above) and place the git repository in the `~/temp` folder inside your home directory. +
Note: `<bonita-repo-name>` should have `trunk`, `branches`, `tags` children folder.

=== Create a .gitignore

Add a .gitignore in `~/temp` with the following content

[source,ini]
----
bin
.classpath
/src-providedGroovy
/template
/h2_database
/process_configurations
/META-INF
.settings
target/
/build.properties

#provided web widgets
/web_widgets/pb*/

#web component preferenes
/web_widgets/.metadata
/web_fragments/.metadata
/web_page/.metadata
/web_page/*/js
/web_fragments/*/*.js
/web_widgets/*/*.js

#bdm jar dependency is regenerate from bom.xml file
/lib/bdm-client-pojo.jar

#only used as user preferences
/database_connectors_properties
----

Double check that all files listed in the .gitignore are not present in `~/temp` folder. +
Remove them otherwise.

Then add all the changes and commit:
`git add -A` +
`git commit -m 'Add .gitignore.'`

=== Push repository to GitHub

Create a new empty repository on GitHub. +
Configure the upstream +
`git remote add origin <github-repo-url>` +
`git push --set-upstream origin master`

You can now clone this git repository in Bonita Studio.

== References

For a more advanced migration read the following article

* https://john.albin.net/git/convert-subversion-to-git
