modules/runtime/pages/bonita-docker-installation.adoc, before:

= Deploy Bonita Runtime with Docker
:page-aliases: ROOT:bonita-docker-installation.adoc
:description: How to install and use the Bonita Runtime docker distribution.

{description}

This guide assumes you have a working docker environment.

== Quick start

To start the latest release


// for the 'subs' parameter, see https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/subs/apply-subs-to-blocks/
[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker login quay.io
docker pull quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
docker logout quay.io
docker run --name=bonita -d -p 8080:8080 quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
----

[NOTE]
====
* Documentation of the community docker image is available https://hub.docker.com/_/bonita[here].
* Information on how to access Quay.io can be found https://customer.bonitasoft.com/download/request[here].
* You need to provide a valid licence, <<section-StepByStep,follow these steps>> in order to get and configure one.
====


[#section-versionning]

== Versioning

Multiple tags exist:

* `latest`: Points to the latest version of the platform
* `pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]`: Points to the latest maintenance version of the pass:a[{bonitaVersion}] version
* `pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]-XXXX`: Tag of a maintenance version of pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]


[WARNING]
====
`latest` and `pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]` are tags that change each time a new version of the platform is released.
It is safer to use the more complete version tag `pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]-XXXX` when scripting deployments to ensure
the binaries do not change.
====


[#section-StepByStep]

== Step-by-step installation procedure

=== Retrieve a licence

First generate a request key into a container with a specific hostname (-h):

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker run --rm --name=bonita -h <hostname> -ti quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}] /bin/bash ./generateRequestKey.sh
----

Answer the questions related to the license you want. This will print out the request key and exit automatically from the running container.

Retrieve the licence from the customer portal and place into one folder that will be mounted as a volume of the docker container. In this example, we will use `~/bonita-lic/.`.

----
cp ~/Downloads/BonitaSubscription-7.7-Cloud_Techuser-<hostname>-20170124-20170331.lic ~/bonita-lic/.
----

Alternatively, you can create a named persistent volume in docker for keeping license file. See https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/[docker documentation on volumes].

=== Start the container

Re-create a new Bonita container with the same hostname (-h) and this host directory mounted (-v) :

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker run --name bonita -h <hostname> -v ~/bonita-lic/:/opt/bonita_lic/ -d -p 8080:8080 quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
----

[NOTE]
====
This will only add the initial license to the Bonita Runtime. To renew a license on an existing installation see <<section-update-configuration,Update configuration and license section>>
====


This will start a container running the Tomcat Bundle with Bonita Runtime. As you did not specify any environment variables it's almost like if you had launched the Bundle on your host using startup.+{sh|bat}+ (with security hardening on REST and HTTP APIs, cf xref:start-bonita-custom-credentials[Security concerns]). It means that Bonita uses a H2 database here.

You can access the Runtime on http://localhost:8080/bonita and login using the default credentials : install / install

=== Start the container interactively

You may also run the Bonita container with an interactive shell session in order to control start and stop of the Tomcat bundle. Although the main usage of the Docker image is to automatically start the Bonita runtime, manually start and stop Tomcat may be useful for development or troubleshooting purposes.

Run the container as follows in order to get an interactive `bash` shell session:


[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker run --name bonita -h <hostname> -v ~/bonita-lic/:/opt/bonita_lic/ -it -p 8080:8080 quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}] bash
----

Then run `/opt/files/startup.sh` inside the container to start Tomcat. In order to stop Tomcat inside the container, press `Ctrl-C`. +
Repeat this sequence to manually start and stop Tomcat in the container.

=== Link Bonita to a database

The H2 database allows the Bonita container to work out of the box, but it is not recommended outside a development environment.

As PostgreSQL is the recommended database for qualification and production environments, follow one of these next sections to configure your Bonita container to run on PostgreSQL database.
You can work with either a PostgreSQL Container, or PostgreSQL as an installed service.

==== PostgreSQL Container

[WARNING]
====

From Bonita 2022.1 onwards, the Bonita docker image does not include configuration scripts for Postgres
====

Therefore the PostgreSQL container needs to be configured to work with Bonita before starting the Bonita container.
The configuration of a PostgreSQL database to work with Bonita is described in detail in the xref:database-configuration.adoc[database configuration page]. +
Alternatively, Bonita provides a preconfigured https://hub.docker.com/r/bonitasoft/bonita-postgres[PostgreSQL image] on docker-hub. +
You can run the image with the following command:

----
docker run --name mydbpostgres -h <hostname> -v <your-bonita-license-folder>:/opt/bonita_lic/ -d bonitasoft/bonita-postgres:12.6
----

This image is built from the following https://github.com/Bonitasoft-Community/bonita-database-docker/tree/main/postgres/12[GitHub repository], which can be further adapted/customized to suit your needs.


==== Using docker-compose

Create a file `docker-compose.yml` with the following content

[source,yaml]
----
# Use tech_user/secret as user/password credentials
version: '3'

services:
  db:
    image: postgres:12.6
    environment:
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: example
    restart: always
    command:
      - -c
      - max_prepared_transactions=100
  bonita:
    image: quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
    hostname: <hostname>
    volumes:
      - ~/bonita-lic:/opt/bonita_lic/
    ports:
      - 8080:8080
    environment:
      - POSTGRES_ENV_POSTGRES_PASSWORD=example
      - DB_VENDOR=postgres
      - DB_HOST=db
      - TENANT_LOGIN=tech_user
      - TENANT_PASSWORD=secret
      - PLATFORM_LOGIN=pfadmin
      - PLATFORM_PASSWORD=pfsecret
      - MONITORING_USERNAME=monitorAdmin
      - MONITORING_PASSWORD=monitor_Secr3t-P455w0rD
    restart: on-failure:2
    depends_on:
      - db
    entrypoint:
      - bash
      - -c
      - |
        set -e
        echo 'Waiting for Postgres to be available'
        export PGPASSWORD=$${POSTGRES_ENV_POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
        maxTries=10
        while [[ "$$maxTries" -gt 0 ]] && ! psql -h $${DB_HOST} -U 'postgres' -c '\l'; do
            let maxTries--
            sleep 1
        done
        if [[ "$$maxTries" -le 0 ]]; then
            echo >&2 'error: unable to contact Postgres after 10 tries'
            exit 1
        fi
        exec /opt/files/startup.sh
----

* Replace `<hostname>` with the one used in the licence generation command
* Replace `~/bonita-lic` with the folder containing the license (on Windows use `/` and avoid `~`)

Run `docker-compose up`, wait for it to initialize completely, and visit `+http://localhost:8080+`, or `+http://host-ip:8080+` (as appropriate).

==== PostgreSQL as an installed service

If you don't want to run your database in a docker container, the following file `env.txt` needs to be configured and provided to the docker run command:

----
DB_VENDOR=postgres
DB_HOST=172.17.0.2
DB_PORT=5432
DB_NAME=custombonitadb
DB_USER=custombonitauser
DB_PASS=custombonitapass
BIZ_DB_NAME=custombusinessdb
BIZ_DB_USER=custombusinessuser
BIZ_DB_PASS=custombusinesspass
----

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker run --name=bonita -h <hostname> --env-file=env.txt -d -p 8080:8080 quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
----

[#start-bonita-custom-credentials]
=== Start Bonita with custom security credentials

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker run --name=bonita -v bonita-lic:/opt/bonita_lic/ -h <hostname> -e "TENANT_LOGIN=tech_user" -e "TENANT_PASSWORD=secret" -e "PLATFORM_LOGIN=pfadmin" -e "PLATFORM_PASSWORD=pfsecret" -e "MONITORING_USERNAME=monitorAdmin" -e "MONITORING_PASSWORD=monitor_Secr3t-P455w0rD" -d -p 8080:8080 quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
----

Now you can access the Bonita Runtime on localhost:8080/bonita and login using: tech_user / secret

== Secure your remote access

This docker image ensures to activate by default both static and dynamic authorization checks on xref:identity:rest-api-authorization.adoc[REST API]. To be coherent it also deactivates the HTTP API.
But for specific needs you can override this behavior by setting HTTP_API to true and REST_API_DYN_AUTH_CHECKS to false :

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker run  -e HTTP_API=true -e REST_API_DYN_AUTH_CHECKS=false --name bonita -v bonita-lic:/opt/bonita_lic/ -h <hostname> -d -p 8080:8080  quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
----

== Environment variables

When you start the bonita image, you can adjust the configuration of the Bonita instance by passing one or more environment variables on the docker run command line.

=== PLATFORM_PASSWORD

This environment variable is recommended for you to use the Bonita image. It sets the platform administrator password for Bonita. If it is not specified, the default password `platform` will be used.

=== PLATFORM_LOGIN

This optional environment variable is used in conjunction with PLATFORM_PASSWORD to define the username for the platform administrator. If it is not specified, the default username `platformAdmin` will be used.

=== TENANT_PASSWORD

This environment variable is recommended for you to use the Bonita image. It sets the tenant administrator password for Bonita. If it is not specified, the default password `install` will be used.

=== TENANT_LOGIN

This optional environment variable is used in conjunction with TENANT_PASSWORD to define the username for the tenant administrator. If it is not specified, the default username `install` will be used.

=== MONITORING_USERNAME

This optional environment variable is used in conjunction with `MONITORING_PASSWORD` to define the access to the xref:runtime-monitoring.adoc#_prometheus_publisher[Prometheus monitoring endpoint], which is protected with https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication[BASIC Auth access]. If it is not specified, the default monitoring username `monitoring` will be used.

=== MONITORING_PASSWORD

This optional environment variable is used in conjunction with `MONITORING_USERNAME` to define the access to the xref:runtime-monitoring.adoc#_prometheus_publisher[Prometheus monitoring endpoint], which is protected with https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication[BASIC Auth access]. If it is not specified, the default monitoring username `mon1tor1ng_adm1n` will be used.

=== REST_API_DYN_AUTH_CHECKS

This optional environment variable is used to enable/disable dynamic authorization checking on Bonita REST API. The default value is true, which will activate dynamic authorization checking.

=== HTTP_API

This optional environment variable is used to enable/disable the Bonita HTTP API. The default value is false, which will deactivate the HTTP API.

=== JAVA_OPTS

This optional environment variable is used to customize JAVA_OPTS. The default value is -Xms1024m -Xmx1024m -XX:MaxPermSize=256m.

=== DB_VENDOR

This environment variable is automatically set to postgres or mysql if the Bonita container is linked to a PostgreSQL or MySQL database using --link. The default value is h2. It can be overridden if you don't use the --link capability.

=== DB_HOST, DB_PORT

These variables are optional, used in conjunction to configure the bonita image to reach the database instance. There are automatically set if --link is used to run the container.

=== DB_NAME, DB_USER, DB_PASS

These variables are used in conjunction to create a new user, set that user's password, and create the bonita database.

`DB_NAME` default value is bonitadb.

`DB_USER` default value is bonitauser.

`DB_PASS` default value is bonitapass.

=== BIZ_DB_NAME, BIZ_DB_USER, BIZ_DB_PASS

These variables are used in conjunction to create a new user, set that user's password and create the bonita business database.

`BIZ_DB_NAME` default value is businessdb.

`BIZ_DB_USER` default value is businessuser.

`BIZ_DB_PASS` default value is businesspass.

=== BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE, BONITA_SETUP_LOGGING_FILE

Since Bonita 7.9 BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE and BONITA_SETUP_LOGGING_FILE can be used to update logging configuration.

`BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE` default value is /opt/bonita/server/conf/logging.properties.

`BONITA_SETUP_LOGGING_FILE` default value is /opt/bonita/setup/logback.xml.

== Migrating from an earlier version of Bonita

The migration scripts affect only the database, not the Bonita instance.
The procedure to migrate a Bonita container is therefore as follow:

* Stop and destroy the running Bonita container.
* Play the migration script on your Bonita database see xref:ROOT:migrate-from-an-earlier-version-of-bonita.adoc#migrate[migrate the platform from an earlier version of Bonita].
* Get the new Bonita docker image, as explained above.
* Update the license, see <<section-update-configuration,Update configuration and license section>>
* Start a new Bonita container.

[#section-update-configuration]

== Update configuration and license

Once renewed from Bonita Customer Portal, the license file and the configuration files are updated using the Setup tool.

Setup tool can be used outside the Docker container directly by downloading the Tomcat bundle and running it from there.

[NOTE]
====

The setup tool needs to be able to access the database. Because of that, if the database is in a docker container, its port must be exposed to the host.
====

See xref:runtime:bonita-platform-setup.adoc#update_platform_conf[setup tool page] for more information.


== Troubleshoot and debug problems inside a Docker container

Bonita pass:a[{bonitaVersion}] docker image comes with a set of tools embedded, xref:https://github.com/apangin/jattach[jattach], that allows to interact with the Tomcat JVM inside a Bonita container via Dynamic Attach mechanism.

Example of useful commands it supports, that you can run from outside the container, include:

* `docker exec <CONTAINER_NAME> jattach 1 jcmd VM.flags` to see all JVM flags passed to Bonita Tomcat JVM:

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
Connected to remote JVM
JVM response code = 0
-XX:CICompilerCount=4 -XX:ConcGCThreads=2 -XX:G1ConcRefinementThreads=8 -XX:G1HeapRegionSize=1048576 -XX:GCDrainStackTargetSize=64 -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -XX:HeapDumpPath=/opt/bonita/server/logs
----

* `docker exec <CONTAINER_NAME> jattach 1 properties` to see all System properties that Java will use:

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
Connected to remote JVM
JVM response code = 0
#Fri Sep 10 14:03:16 GMT 2021
com.arjuna.ats.arjuna.common.propertiesFile=/opt/bonita/server/conf/jbossts-properties.xml
sysprop.bonita.bdm.db.vendor=h2
awt.toolkit=sun.awt.X11.XToolkit
java.specification.version=11
sun.cpu.isalist=
sun.jnu.encoding=ANSI_X3.4-1968
java.class.path=/opt/bonita/server/lib/ext/bonita-tomcat-juli-pass:a[{bonitaTechnicalVersion}].jar\:/opt/bonita/server/bin/bootstrap.jar\:/opt/bonita/server/bin/tomcat-juli.jar
sysprop.bonita.db.vendor=h2
java.vm.vendor=Ubuntu
----

Read the https://github.com/apangin/jattach[official jattach documentation] for a complete list of supported commands.

Commit message:

feat(Dynamic security): update doc as the feature is now SP-only
Closes [RUNTIME-746](https://bonitasoft.atlassian.net/browse/RUNTIME-746)

modules/runtime/pages/bonita-docker-installation.adoc, after:

= Deploy Bonita Runtime with Docker
:page-aliases: ROOT:bonita-docker-installation.adoc
:description: How to install and use the Bonita Runtime docker distribution.

{description}

This guide assumes you have a working docker environment.

== Quick start

To start the latest release


// for the 'subs' parameter, see https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/subs/apply-subs-to-blocks/
[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker login quay.io
docker pull quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
docker logout quay.io
docker run --name=bonita -d -p 8080:8080 quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
----

[NOTE]
====
* Documentation of the community docker image is available https://hub.docker.com/_/bonita[here].
* Information on how to access Quay.io can be found https://customer.bonitasoft.com/download/request[here].
* You need to provide a valid licence, <<section-StepByStep,follow these steps>> in order to get and configure one.
====


[#section-versionning]

== Versioning

Multiple tags exist:

* `latest`: Points to the latest version of the platform
* `pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]`: Points to the latest maintenance version of the pass:a[{bonitaVersion}] version
* `pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]-XXXX`: Tag of a maintenance version of pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]


[WARNING]
====
`latest` and `pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]` are tags that change each time a new version of the platform is released.
It is safer to use the more complete version tag `pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]-XXXX` when scripting deployments to ensure
the binaries do not change.
====


[#section-StepByStep]

== Step-by-step installation procedure

=== Retrieve a licence

First generate a request key into a container with a specific hostname (-h):

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker run --rm --name=bonita -h <hostname> -ti quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}] /bin/bash ./generateRequestKey.sh
----

Answer the questions related to the license you want. This will print out the request key and exit automatically from the running container.

Retrieve the licence from the customer portal and place into one folder that will be mounted as a volume of the docker container. In this example, we will use `~/bonita-lic/.`.

----
cp ~/Downloads/BonitaSubscription-7.7-Cloud_Techuser-<hostname>-20170124-20170331.lic ~/bonita-lic/.
----

Alternatively, you can create a named persistent volume in docker for keeping license file. See https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/[docker documentation on volumes].

=== Start the container

Re-create a new Bonita container with the same hostname (-h) and this host directory mounted (-v) :

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker run --name bonita -h <hostname> -v ~/bonita-lic/:/opt/bonita_lic/ -d -p 8080:8080 quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
----

[NOTE]
====
This will only add the initial license to the Bonita Runtime. To renew a license on an existing installation see <<section-update-configuration,Update configuration and license section>>
====


This will start a container running the Tomcat Bundle with Bonita Runtime. As you did not specify any environment variables it's almost like if you had launched the Bundle on your host using startup.+{sh|bat}+ (with security hardening on REST and HTTP APIs, cf xref:start-bonita-custom-credentials[Security concerns]). It means that Bonita uses a H2 database here.

You can access the Runtime on http://localhost:8080/bonita and login using the default credentials : install / install

=== Start the container interactively

You may also run the Bonita container with an interactive shell session in order to control start and stop of the Tomcat bundle. Although the main usage of the Docker image is to automatically start the Bonita runtime, manually start and stop Tomcat may be useful for development or troubleshooting purposes.

Run the container as follows in order to get an interactive `bash` shell session:


[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker run --name bonita -h <hostname> -v ~/bonita-lic/:/opt/bonita_lic/ -it -p 8080:8080 quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}] bash
----

Then run `/opt/files/startup.sh` inside the container to start Tomcat. In order to stop Tomcat inside the container, press `Ctrl-C`. +
Repeat this sequence to manually start and stop Tomcat in the container.

=== Link Bonita to a database

The H2 database allows the Bonita container to work out of the box, but it is not recommended outside a development environment.

As PostgreSQL is the recommended database for qualification and production environments, follow one of these next sections to configure your Bonita container to run on PostgreSQL database.
You can work with either a PostgreSQL Container, or PostgreSQL as an installed service.

==== PostgreSQL Container

[WARNING]
====

From Bonita 2022.1 onwards, the Bonita docker image does not include configuration scripts for Postgres
====

Therefore the PostgreSQL container needs to be configured to work with Bonita before starting the Bonita container.
The configuration of a PostgreSQL database to work with Bonita is described in detail in the xref:database-configuration.adoc[database configuration page]. +
Alternatively, Bonita provides a preconfigured https://hub.docker.com/r/bonitasoft/bonita-postgres[PostgreSQL image] on docker-hub. +
You can run the image with the following command:

----
docker run --name mydbpostgres -h <hostname> -v <your-bonita-license-folder>:/opt/bonita_lic/ -d bonitasoft/bonita-postgres:12.6
----

This image is built from the following https://github.com/Bonitasoft-Community/bonita-database-docker/tree/main/postgres/12[GitHub repository], which can be further adapted/customized to suit your needs.


==== Using docker-compose

Create a file `docker-compose.yml` with the following content

[source,yaml,subs="+macros"]
----
# Use tech_user/secret as user/password credentials
version: '3'

services:
  db:
    image: postgres:12.6
    environment:
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: example
    restart: always
    command:
      - -c
      - max_prepared_transactions=100
  bonita:
    image: quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
    hostname: <hostname>
    volumes:
      - ~/bonita-lic:/opt/bonita_lic/
    ports:
      - 8080:8080
    environment:
      - POSTGRES_ENV_POSTGRES_PASSWORD=example
      - DB_VENDOR=postgres
      - DB_HOST=db
      - TENANT_LOGIN=tech_user
      - TENANT_PASSWORD=secret
      - PLATFORM_LOGIN=pfadmin
      - PLATFORM_PASSWORD=pfsecret
      - MONITORING_USERNAME=monitorAdmin
      - MONITORING_PASSWORD=monitor_Secr3t-P455w0rD
    restart: on-failure:2
    depends_on:
      - db
    entrypoint:
      - bash
      - -c
      - |
        set -e
        echo 'Waiting for Postgres to be available'
        export PGPASSWORD=$${POSTGRES_ENV_POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
        maxTries=10
        while [[ "$$maxTries" -gt 0 ]] && ! psql -h $${DB_HOST} -U 'postgres' -c '\l'; do
            let maxTries--
            sleep 1
        done
        if [[ "$$maxTries" -le 0 ]]; then
            echo >&2 'error: unable to contact Postgres after 10 tries'
            exit 1
        fi
        exec /opt/files/startup.sh
----

* Replace `<hostname>` with the one used in the licence generation command
* Replace `~/bonita-lic` with the folder containing the license (on Windows use `/` and avoid `~`)

Run `docker-compose up`, wait for it to initialize completely, and visit `+http://localhost:8080+`, or `+http://host-ip:8080+` (as appropriate).

==== PostgreSQL as an installed service

If you don't want to run your database in a docker container, the following file `env.txt` needs to be configured and provided to the docker run command:

----
DB_VENDOR=postgres
DB_HOST=172.17.0.2
DB_PORT=5432
DB_NAME=custombonitadb
DB_USER=custombonitauser
DB_PASS=custombonitapass
BIZ_DB_NAME=custombusinessdb
BIZ_DB_USER=custombusinessuser
BIZ_DB_PASS=custombusinesspass
----

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker run --name=bonita -h <hostname> --env-file=env.txt -d -p 8080:8080 quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
----

[#start-bonita-custom-credentials]
=== Start Bonita with custom security credentials

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker run --name=bonita -v bonita-lic:/opt/bonita_lic/ -h <hostname> -e "TENANT_LOGIN=tech_user" -e "TENANT_PASSWORD=secret" -e "PLATFORM_LOGIN=pfadmin" -e "PLATFORM_PASSWORD=pfsecret" -e "MONITORING_USERNAME=monitorAdmin" -e "MONITORING_PASSWORD=monitor_Secr3t-P455w0rD" -d -p 8080:8080 quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
----

Now you can access the Bonita Runtime on localhost:8080/bonita and login using: tech_user / secret

== Secure your remote access

This docker image ensures to activate by default both static and dynamic authorization checks on xref:identity:rest-api-authorization.adoc[REST API]. To be coherent it also deactivates the HTTP API.
But for specific needs you can override this behavior by setting HTTP_API to true and COM_BONITASOFT_ENGINE_AUTHORIZATION_REST_DYNAMIC_CHECK_ENABLE to false :

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
docker run  -e HTTP_API=true -e COM_BONITASOFT_ENGINE_AUTHORIZATION_REST_DYNAMIC_CHECK_ENABLE=false --name bonita -v bonita-lic:/opt/bonita_lic/ -h <hostname> -d -p 8080:8080  quay.io/bonitasoft/bonita-subscription:pass:a[{bonitaVersion}]
----

== Environment variables

When you start the bonita image, you can adjust the configuration of the Bonita instance by passing one or more environment variables on the docker run command line.

=== PLATFORM_PASSWORD

This environment variable is recommended for you to use the Bonita image. It sets the platform administrator password for Bonita. If it is not specified, the default password `platform` will be used.

=== PLATFORM_LOGIN

This optional environment variable is used in conjunction with PLATFORM_PASSWORD to define the username for the platform administrator. If it is not specified, the default username `platformAdmin` will be used.

=== TENANT_PASSWORD

This environment variable is recommended for you to use the Bonita image. It sets the tenant administrator password for Bonita. If it is not specified, the default password `install` will be used.

=== TENANT_LOGIN

This optional environment variable is used in conjunction with TENANT_PASSWORD to define the username for the tenant administrator. If it is not specified, the default username `install` will be used.

=== MONITORING_USERNAME

This optional environment variable is used in conjunction with `MONITORING_PASSWORD` to define the access to the xref:runtime-monitoring.adoc#_prometheus_publisher[Prometheus monitoring endpoint], which is protected with https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication[BASIC Auth access]. If it is not specified, the default monitoring username `monitoring` will be used.

=== MONITORING_PASSWORD

This optional environment variable is used in conjunction with `MONITORING_USERNAME` to define the access to the xref:runtime-monitoring.adoc#_prometheus_publisher[Prometheus monitoring endpoint], which is protected with https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Basic_access_authentication[BASIC Auth access]. If it is not specified, the default monitoring username `mon1tor1ng_adm1n` will be used.

=== REST_API_DYN_AUTH_CHECKS

Deprecated, now you can use xref:#dynamic-check-enable[COM_BONITASOFT_ENGINE_AUTHORIZATION_REST_DYNAMIC_CHECK_ENABLE] instead.

[#dynamic-check-enable]

=== COM_BONITASOFT_ENGINE_AUTHORIZATION_REST_DYNAMIC_CHECK_ENABLE (Subscription editions only)

This optional environment variable is used to enable/disable dynamic authorization checking on Bonita REST API. The default value is true, which will activate dynamic authorization checking.

=== HTTP_API

This optional environment variable is used to enable/disable the Bonita HTTP API. The default value is false, which will deactivate the HTTP API.

=== JAVA_OPTS

This optional environment variable is used to customize JAVA_OPTS. The default value is -Xms1024m -Xmx1024m -XX:MaxPermSize=256m.

=== DB_VENDOR

This environment variable is automatically set to postgres or mysql if the Bonita container is linked to a PostgreSQL or MySQL database using --link. The default value is h2. It can be overridden if you don't use the --link capability.

=== DB_HOST, DB_PORT

These variables are optional, used in conjunction to configure the bonita image to reach the database instance. There are automatically set if --link is used to run the container.

=== DB_NAME, DB_USER, DB_PASS

These variables are used in conjunction to create a new user, set that user's password, and create the bonita database.

`DB_NAME` default value is bonitadb.

`DB_USER` default value is bonitauser.

`DB_PASS` default value is bonitapass.

=== BIZ_DB_NAME, BIZ_DB_USER, BIZ_DB_PASS

These variables are used in conjunction to create a new user, set that user's password and create the bonita business database.

`BIZ_DB_NAME` default value is businessdb.

`BIZ_DB_USER` default value is businessuser.

`BIZ_DB_PASS` default value is businesspass.

=== BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE, BONITA_SETUP_LOGGING_FILE

Since Bonita 7.9 BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE and BONITA_SETUP_LOGGING_FILE can be used to update logging configuration.

`BONITA_SERVER_LOGGING_FILE` default value is /opt/bonita/server/conf/logging.properties.

`BONITA_SETUP_LOGGING_FILE` default value is /opt/bonita/setup/logback.xml.

== Migrating from an earlier version of Bonita

The migration scripts affect only the database, not the Bonita instance.
The procedure to migrate a Bonita container is therefore as follow:

* Stop and destroy the running Bonita container.
* Play the migration script on your Bonita database see xref:ROOT:migrate-from-an-earlier-version-of-bonita.adoc#migrate[migrate the platform from an earlier version of Bonita].
* Get the new Bonita docker image, as explained above.
* Update the license, see <<section-update-configuration,Update configuration and license section>>
* Start a new Bonita container.

[#section-update-configuration]

== Update configuration and license

Once renewed from Bonita Customer Portal, the license file and the configuration files are updated using the Setup tool.

Setup tool can be used outside the Docker container directly by downloading the Tomcat bundle and running it from there.

[NOTE]
====

The setup tool needs to be able to access the database. Because of that, if the database is in a docker container, its port must be exposed to the host.
====

See xref:runtime:bonita-platform-setup.adoc#update_platform_conf[setup tool page] for more information.


== Troubleshoot and debug problems inside a Docker container

Bonita pass:a[{bonitaVersion}] docker image comes with a set of tools embedded, xref:https://github.com/apangin/jattach[jattach], that allows to interact with the Tomcat JVM inside a Bonita container via Dynamic Attach mechanism.

Example of useful commands it supports, that you can run from outside the container, include:

* `docker exec <CONTAINER_NAME> jattach 1 jcmd VM.flags` to see all JVM flags passed to Bonita Tomcat JVM:

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
Connected to remote JVM
JVM response code = 0
-XX:CICompilerCount=4 -XX:ConcGCThreads=2 -XX:G1ConcRefinementThreads=8 -XX:G1HeapRegionSize=1048576 -XX:GCDrainStackTargetSize=64 -XX:+HeapDumpOnOutOfMemoryError -XX:HeapDumpPath=/opt/bonita/server/logs
----

* `docker exec <CONTAINER_NAME> jattach 1 properties` to see all System properties that Java will use:

[source,shell script,subs="+macros"]
----
Connected to remote JVM
JVM response code = 0
#Fri Sep 10 14:03:16 GMT 2021
com.arjuna.ats.arjuna.common.propertiesFile=/opt/bonita/server/conf/jbossts-properties.xml
sysprop.bonita.bdm.db.vendor=h2
awt.toolkit=sun.awt.X11.XToolkit
java.specification.version=11
sun.cpu.isalist=
sun.jnu.encoding=ANSI_X3.4-1968
java.class.path=/opt/bonita/server/lib/ext/bonita-tomcat-juli-pass:a[{bonitaTechnicalVersion}].jar\:/opt/bonita/server/bin/bootstrap.jar\:/opt/bonita/server/bin/tomcat-juli.jar
sysprop.bonita.db.vendor=h2
java.vm.vendor=Ubuntu
----

Read the https://github.com/apangin/jattach[official jattach documentation] for a complete list of supported commands.
