modules/runtime/pages/connectors-execution.adoc, before:

= Connectors execution
:page-aliases: ROOT:connectors-execution.adoc
:description: == What are connectors

== What are connectors

Connectors are extension points that can be added to a process to extend Bonita Runtime capabilities. They are a piece of code having inputs defined as `Expressions` and outputs defined as `Operations`.

== Execution mechanism

=== Diagram of the execution

Connectors execution are triggered by a `Work` and are executed in their own thread pool.

image::images/connector_execution.png[Connector execution]

=== Connector timeout

[NOTE]
====

For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only.
====

A timeout can be configured to cancel the connector execution if it takes more than a certain amount of time.

The timeout will try to interrupt the thread executing the connector.
If the code executing in the thread cannot be interrupted, the thread will not stop.
In practice, it means that in this case, the connector will timeout, releasing the execution of the task that called it, but the connector executor will still try to finish executing the connector's code, and will not be available to execute another connector.
A typical example of this is if the custom code in a groovy connector falls into an infinite loop : the connector will timeout, but the connector executor will be running forever.

image::images/connector_execution_timeout.png[Connector execution with timeout]

== Configuration

The size of the pool to execute connector and the timeout can be configured as described in xref:ROOT:performance-tuning.adoc#connector_service[Connector service performance tuning page]

Commit message:

feat(connectors): add doc how connector failure (#1898)
* feat(connectors): add doc how connector failure

* Also explain that it's better to have idempotent connectors.

* Apply suggestions from code review

Closes [RUNTIME-767](https://bonitasoft.atlassian.net/browse/RUNTIME-767)

Co-authored-by: Adrien <adrien.lachambre@bonitasoft.com>

modules/runtime/pages/connectors-execution.adoc, after:

= Connectors execution
:page-aliases: ROOT:connectors-execution.adoc
:description: == What are connectors

== What are connectors

Connectors are extension points that can be added to a process to extend Bonita Runtime capabilities. They are a piece of code having inputs defined as `Expressions` and outputs defined as `Operations`.

== Execution mechanism

=== Diagram of the execution

Connectors execution are triggered by a `Work` and are executed in their own thread pool.

image::images/connector_execution.png[Connector execution]

=== Connector timeout

[NOTE]
====

For Enterprise, Performance, Efficiency, and Teamwork editions only.
====

A timeout can be configured to cancel the connector execution if it takes more than a certain amount of time.

The timeout will try to interrupt the thread executing the connector.
If the code executing in the thread cannot be interrupted, the thread will not stop.
In practice, it means that in this case, the connector will timeout, releasing the execution of the task that called it, but the connector executor will still try to finish executing the connector's code, and will not be available to execute another connector.
A typical example of this is if the custom code in a groovy connector falls into an infinite loop : the connector will timeout, but the connector executor will be running forever.

image::images/connector_execution_timeout.png[Connector execution with timeout]

=== Connector failure handling

When a connector fails, it is put as failed and the exception can be retrieved
using the xref:api:bpm-api.adoc#_connectorfailure[dedicated api].

Then the connector can be manually be replayed using the xref:api:bpm-api.adoc#activity-replay[activityReplay api].


[NOTE]
====
On rare cases, when an error occurs on a connector and the engine is unable to mark it as failed
(this might be caused by the engine being unable to get a new sql connection), the connector will automatically be retried.
That is why it is best to have idempotent connector implementations.
====

== Configuration

The size of the pool to execute connector and the timeout can be configured as described in xref:ROOT:performance-tuning.adoc#connector_service[Connector service performance tuning page]
