modules/runtime/pages/log-in-and-log-out.adoc, before:

= Log in and log out
:description: This page explains how to log in and log out of the Bonita User Interfaces.

{description}

[NOTE]
====

Note: to avoid login problems, make sure you http://www.wikihow.com/Clear-Your-Browser's-Cache[empty your browser cache].
====

== Log in

A user may receive an email with a link to start a case or do a task in Bonita User Application, or a custom application.
Or a user wants to check the status of the task list in Bonita User Application, or business data and operations in a custom application. +
Or an administrator needs to perform monitoring or maintenance on the Bonita Platform. +
For any of this, they need to log in. To do so:

. Enter the login page URL. (The default port number is 8080.) +
    * For Bonita User Application: `http://`_`hostname:port`_`/bonita/apps/userApp`. +
    * For Bonita Administrator Application:
 ** For the Enterprise edition: `http://`_`hostname:port`_`/bonita/apps/adminAppSP`
 ** For the Community edition: `http://`_`hostname:port`_`/bonita/apps/adminApp`
  *** For a custom application: `http://`_`hostname:port`_`/bonita/apps/yourAppName`.
. In the fields, enter the _username_, and the _password_
. Click on the *Login* button.

The default application is the Bonita Application Directory. From there, the user can xref:navigation.adoc[navigate] to their other profiles. +
Each application is mapped to one profile. A user can xref:navigation.adoc[navigate] between the applications they have the permissions to access.

== Log out

For an application:

. Click on the _first name last name_ or _avatar_ in the application header
. Click on *Sign out*

image:images/UI2021.1/sign-out.png[Sign out]
// {.img-responsive}

[NOTE]
====

Note: in a system that uses a solution to provide single sign-on (with SAML, CAS, etc...), the administrator can remove the logout option. In this case, to log out of an application, you must log out of the SSO system or close your browser.
====

See also xref:first-steps-after-setup.adoc[First steps after setup]

See also xref:active-directory-or-ldap-authentication.adoc[Active directory/ldap authentication]

See also xref:bonita-bpm-applications-urls.adoc[Accessing Bonita Applications and forms by URL]

Commit message:

feat(alias): add all aliases for runtime module (#1781)

modules/runtime/pages/log-in-and-log-out.adoc, after:

= Log in and log out
:page-aliases: ROOT:log-in-and-log-out.adoc
:description: This page explains how to log in and log out of the Bonita User Interfaces.

{description}

[NOTE]
====

Note: to avoid login problems, make sure you http://www.wikihow.com/Clear-Your-Browser's-Cache[empty your browser cache].
====

== Log in

A user may receive an email with a link to start a case or do a task in Bonita User Application, or a custom application.
Or a user wants to check the status of the task list in Bonita User Application, or business data and operations in a custom application. +
Or an administrator needs to perform monitoring or maintenance on the Bonita Platform. +
For any of this, they need to log in. To do so:

. Enter the login page URL. (The default port number is 8080.) +
    * For Bonita User Application: `http://`_`hostname:port`_`/bonita/apps/userApp`. +
    * For Bonita Administrator Application:
 ** For the Enterprise edition: `http://`_`hostname:port`_`/bonita/apps/adminAppSP`
 ** For the Community edition: `http://`_`hostname:port`_`/bonita/apps/adminApp`
  *** For a custom application: `http://`_`hostname:port`_`/bonita/apps/yourAppName`.
. In the fields, enter the _username_, and the _password_
. Click on the *Login* button.

The default application is the Bonita Application Directory. From there, the user can xref:navigation.adoc[navigate] to their other profiles. +
Each application is mapped to one profile. A user can xref:navigation.adoc[navigate] between the applications they have the permissions to access.

== Log out

For an application:

. Click on the _first name last name_ or _avatar_ in the application header
. Click on *Sign out*

image:images/UI2021.1/sign-out.png[Sign out]
// {.img-responsive}

[NOTE]
====

Note: in a system that uses a solution to provide single sign-on (with SAML, CAS, etc...), the administrator can remove the logout option. In this case, to log out of an application, you must log out of the SSO system or close your browser.
====

See also xref:first-steps-after-setup.adoc[First steps after setup]

See also xref:active-directory-or-ldap-authentication.adoc[Active directory/ldap authentication]

See also xref:bonita-bpm-applications-urls.adoc[Accessing Bonita Applications and forms by URL]
